Start at the top, the title of this is Convert Your Conversation Into Content with Spiral.
So who am I?
I'm Danny.
I'm the general manager of Spiral at Every, I'm based in New York.
For those of you who are asking, what is Every?
Every is a media and software company.
We publish a daily newsletter about what comes next in technology.
We also build Spiral as software products.
Like Spiral, we have a few others.
We offer courses and we also provide AI consulting and training services.
If you're interested, go find out more at Every, everywhere on the internet.
But why are you here?
You're here because you probably want more money.
And how do you get more money?
One of the ways is you get more clients.
And how do I get more clients?
One of the ways is to prove your credibility.
A lot of what Jason's talking about.
And so how do you prove your credibility?
Well, I think that one of the ways that you can do that is to prove your
expertise to your potential clients before they've even met you, before
they've even jumped on a call.
One of the ways is to have a backlog of content about topics that matter to you.
And more importantly, matters to your clients.
It's a lot more impressive to have blog posts and tweets and whatever about MCPs
four months ago, around the time that Anthropic dropped the protocol than
today, when everyone's talking about it.
So what should you write about?
And I think personally that you don't need new ideas.
You don't need new insights.
They're all kind of already here in your head already.
They're probably already rich in expertise and experience.
You just lack visibility.
I would think a bet that you probably spend 10 hours a week talking to clients,
potential clients, internal meetings, whatever.
There's probably even gold there.
And if you're like me, you probably spend 10 hours scrolling onto where
listening to podcasts, reading other people's content.
There's probably gold there too.
But to be a bit more concrete about it, content from meetings and calls, the
content opportunities in every call meeting you have, what did you say twice
in that call?
What did you bring up to multiple clients this week?
What's something that when you jumped on a sales call with a prospective client,
they brought up a lot as pushback.
There's been some really interesting content that you can write from that.
That, you know, when you get on that perspective call, be like, Hey, I wrote
about this two weeks ago, check this out.
I think that's really powerful.
Content from what you consume.
Honestly, there's just a world of content opportunities and just sharing your two
cents.
Gagson says, right.
Is that his way to disagree?
I listened to the all in pod and Chimata drawing about tariffs.
He had my opinion, but writing content is hard.
Blank pages are scary.
Writing can be slow and painful.
And today, especially with AI, most content like that, it's pretty shallow.
And you've probably just left with like, if people are going to read this, it's
even going to do anything for me.
This is where we think spiral can help spiral helps you start at 80%.
Instead of a blank page, it helps you take one piece of content and end up with
10, a tweet becomes a blog post, a blog post becomes a new list, so on and so
forth spiral helps you create content.
That actually sounds like you as opposed to just generic VPT for slob.
And most importantly, the more consistent you are, the more likely your content
will start to appear in feeds.
So with all of that, let me actually just show it up.
We'll do a little demo.
So we'll start with that first one.
Meetings into content.
So I have this transcript between an AI consultant called Danny and a company
and the guy's called Jason, and you see like in the meeting, a lot of it is, you
know, talking about what they did this morning and dropping off their daughter
to school, and we're going to bring it up to spiral.
Now, the way that spiral works, it's not a chat in first, like chat, you've
to do a call out.
Spiral has an atomic unit, which are also called spiraled and it takes in a
particular type of input, like a transcript or an article, and it turns it into a
tweet.
And the first thing that's going to do, you throw it in there, is going to try
and find what is really interesting in this thing that you've just given me.
And it's going to turn it into a tweet in this case.
So if I hit run, I'm moving to look at the transcript, stop buying enterprise
AI solutions from vendors with fancy demos.
The best AI transformations happen when you give employees freedom to experiment
as tools that actually want to use innovation flows from the bottom up, not
from executive roadbamps and seven figure implementations.
So there's a lot in this transcript about other things, but it's figured out
like the most interesting thing here is that companies shouldn't be buying
expensive AI solutions.
They should be giving their employees the ability to like experiment and do it
from a bottom of that approach.
It's really interesting, but I want to go a little bit further.
Maybe there's another way I want to write this so I can hit generate multiple.
But I was going to give you three more tweets, go back to the point of like how
spiral can help.
I've already started at 8%.
I had this meeting, didn't even know if there was interesting content here.
And I've already got like, it's really interesting idea that could be through a
tweet, the AI strategy is backwards.
Don't buy million dollar enterprise solutions with fancy demos.
Instead give employees budget to experiment tools, actually when you use.
So I really liked it.
I think this is pretty cool.
So one of the things that you could do is literally just copy this, send it out
to Twitter, see how it does.
If it does really well, the next thing you can do, not going in from taking one
piece of content into multiple is to turn it into a blog.
And as far as we have a public library full of different things.
One of them is taking transcripts into blog.
So I'm going to throw the transcript in here.
And I'm also just going to throw in the tweet at the bottom.
It's going to add it to the bottom.
And say, write a blog about the idea at the bottom and let it run.
It might take a few minutes.
I'm stuck in.
And there you go.
It's going to start streaming it.
Now the idea is it's not going to be perfect.
You need to spend a little bit of time with what it is, make it sound like
actually you make it actually say the points that you want to say the more
that you're asked for it, the more that it's just going to come up with stuff.
But already I started with something that I could tweet, see how it does on
engagement wise and just keep going from there.
But that's the main one.
Now, maybe I want to go in here and change this a little bit.
You can come in and you can edit it.
You can make sure that it fits.
Are you all right?
So that's the meeting, the transcript one.
Next is podcasts into content.
Now, again, I think everyone's considering the internet and I'm going to take this
Lex premium podcast with the CEO of the PexState and throw it into that same
spiral, it's going to do the exact same thing.
It's just going to try and find what's interesting.
We'll generate multiple.
This is interesting.
The real breakthrough in AI won't be bigger models.
There'll be decoupling reasons from facts.
We don't need AI that memorizes everything.
We need AI that can think deeply with access and information.
That's the trillion dollar insight.
But maybe I actually want to make it more about perplexity.
Maybe I actually listen to the podcast and I have a hot take that I
want to make about perplexity.
Maybe it's most people don't understand why perplexity is raising fat rounds.
Making a long term that you don't get.
Let's see what it comes up with.
So then I took a podcast.
Maybe I didn't realize that there was a way for me to write something here.
And now I can like put this out on Twitter and get some, just telling people
that I'm paying attention to these things.
Again, you could do this for all sorts of things.
Here is Shopify, sorry, the CEO of Shopify put out this piece yesterday about how
the whole team needs to start using AI.
Just going to copy and paste it into there.
And already I've got something that could be interesting.
Maybe I want to say the same thing from before, from that meeting.
Maybe I was saying in that meeting, it should be a bottom-up approach.
So AI in companies should be bottom-up approach.
Not expensive vendors, but team members experimenting.
Okay.
And so maybe I actually like this to begin with.
So let's start with that ending.
And now I can chat with it, start improving it a little bit.
This is how you actually transform a company.
Let's make that hook better.
Bring in.
Oh, actually kind of like that.
No, let's do.
And also, yeah, I'm just going to tweet that because I like it.
Hey, the next thing is you can just find content on the internet.
A lot of you may have seen all the stuff going on about rippling a deal.
Here's a tech urge piece.
Maybe I don't even care about reading this.
I just want to see like what is interesting here.
I can just throw the link in, have it come up with something interesting.
So my actual opinion on all this stuff is that startups focus on being good,
not being great, even not corporate espionage.
Okay.
They didn't really listen to me.
No, let's not do it's a distraction.
Yeah.
And I want to tweet that out.
And finally, I might be reading something that's actually paywalled.
So this is a great piece that we put out a couple of weeks ago about the founder
of Nvidia is $120 billion version.
But I read some of the articles and I've raised actually paywall.
I've got, we have a Chrome extension.
So if you download this viral Chrome extension, you can add, use this on any
type of content, whether it's health copy and paste, or it's behind a paywall.
And it will ask you in the Chrome extension, what is the opinion that you have?
And my opinion from this is that, this comes from trying things out, being
lucky and whatever else is in the article.
Okay.
So I really liked that.
Optimus get rich skeptics, right?
Newsletters about them.
So start with that.
And so as you can see in like what?
Five minutes, I think we made a couple of tweets based on a meeting, a couple
of things I've been reading on the internet and a podcast, you do this more
frequently, you do this with more meetings, you do this with more tweets,
more blog posts that you're like just consuming, you've got content for days.
And the whole idea is you've done.
Try it out, see what sticks, see what resonates with your audience, but more
importantly, see what actually shows your prospective clients like, Oh, they're
paying attention to what matters to me.
Now you might be looking at all of that and say like, Hey, none of that sounded
like me, none of that sounded like what I want to say.
And so that big part of spiral is making it sound like you.
And this is where making your own spiral comes in.
So when you go to the UI, the top left corner, you can create your own spiral.
It's going to ask you what's your input and what's your output.
So my input is going to be transcripts and my output is going to be blog posts.
Now I'm a real big fan of Seth Dodin.
I think his blog posts are actually tweet worthy.
So all you have to do is come in and just give it a couple of examples.
It could be examples from your content.
It could be examples from content you really like a bit of both, and it'll help
spiral, take whatever you give it and write it in the same tone of voice,
format, structure, and really try and get at the, what is the emotional
point at the end of it?
So we'll throw a couple in and we'll let it run.
Now, just like any good cooking show, I already did this beforehand.
So here is the Seth Godin one and let's see what maybe Seth wants to say about
perplexity.
So this is completely different, the same podcast, whereas before we were saying
like, it isn't about big models.
It's about something else.
Like here it's about answers.
And again, now that we've got this format and this tone of voice, we can start
laying it in our own opinions.
It's not about answers.
It's about curiosity.
And letting people go down rabbit holes, not getting them to click on an ad
straight away.
And I'll show you one more, which is why don't we tweet like Jason?
I made a Jason Lou Twitter and we'll throw in the exact same podcast.
And it'd be cool.
I used four of Jason's recent tweets.
So it may not exactly sound like Jason, but it sounds like what he's been
recently saying, but I wrote in there.
I'll revamp it because chat bots keep hallucinating and he needed health
insurance, the solution, false AI to cite everything like academics do in papers.
Google's trapped in their ad business.
Well, the best you focus on is discovery.
Your margin is my opportunity.
Okay.
And we'll do one more test with this, which is we'll take that transcript from
the meeting that we had earlier and throw that in.
Financial services execs always wants to buy some massive enterprise
AI solutions for vendors.
Your employees know their jobs better than you do.
Give them AI pills and let them experiment.
Help down AI app permission.
I'm thought enough, but don't mind.
So I think.
Drop that.
That actually sounded like a pretty good Jason tweet to me.
Cool.
So the two other things are important is that spiral works really well when you
give it examples of how you sound or how you really want to sound, but you may
not know exactly how you sound.
And this is where the public library is really important.
So there's public library full of tweets, LinkedIn posts, blog posts,
newsletters, everything, and maybe you want to start using it.
Then after a while, you want it to sound like you.
So one of the most important things you can do in spiral is you can
actually clone a spiral.
And you can make it your own.
So here's the plan.
Now, when you go in, you can actually see the set of examples that are in here
that like make the spiral, what it is.
And then maybe things that you don't like, like I don't like that.
This starts with research and all caps.
So I'm just going to remove it.
And I'm going to remove this one too.
Now I'm going to start adding in some of Jason's tweets that way under the
hood, the model is going to try to, I lost it.
My bad.
There we go.
Take what already makes it great, but hone it more towards what you're interested
in.
Now that's something that's something you can play with and that's kind of the
end of the demo.
Now you might be asking the question, can't I just use chat, GPC or Claude?
Yes.
We're just a wrapper.
We're using Claude under the hood.
The reason why you would want to use something like spiral instead, there's no
prompt engineer needed, just dropping your content and go.
If you spend the time to give it examples that make it, you know, create
an actual spiral, it'll sound like you every single time and it'll learn and
match your tone of voice.
And the most important thing is that when you start scaling and you start
realizing that you want to make more content and you want to delegate this
to somebody, it's much easier to delegate a workflow.
Hey, go to spiral, click this thing and just copy and paste as opposed to,
Hey, go to chat, GPC, paste this exact prompt, then paste the transcript
and then do this.
It's more about efficiencies in terms of the workflow and being consistent.
Final takeaways, prove your credibility before they've met you.
Don't start from a blank page.
You those going on in your life, meetings, other content to get things going
and make it easy for yourself to be consistent.
Use spiral, use AI.
That's the most important thing.
Thank you.
We can jump into some questions, but check out spiral.
There's an unlimited seven day trial.
I get 20% off with an annual sub.
If you use the code JX and LCO, check out every and then follow spiral.
Follow every, follow me.
Thank you.
Nice.
Now I have tweets that sound like me and promo can be used after much overhandle.
I also want to love to sort of share one thing on my side as well from using spiral,
which is the fact that I think oftentimes now I will write my own blog posts or I
work with the transcripts and mostly spend a lot of my efforts in a single blog
post.
And then what spiral has really helped me do is to do two things after in the
blog post, like promoting it almost as a different kind of job.
And now it's like, right, I can have a couple of different tweets promoted at
LinkedIn Pope promote it, but the goals are still have a really good blog post
out, right?
That's the goal isn't really just a ship slot.
I will say the other thing that has been really helpful is oftentimes when I wrap
up a meeting, I don't really have that much time to think about what were the
interesting ideas that came out from that meeting.
It's like, okay, well we had this point about hiring and this mistake that we
made, we made a point about like prompt engineering.
I don't really, I don't really know what is worth writing right now, mostly
because I've just gotten busier.
And so one thing that spiral has helped me do is if it can just produce four or
five tweets, I will just put them in the queue and I will just sort of schedule
them in and then post them.
And what will end up happening is it won't be the case that all of them have
the same kind of engagement.
Usually one of them will get 3000 views.
The other two get like 500 and they go, okay, well clearly the people reading my
stuff, they're resonating with this idea around hiring.
Maybe there's something more there and then I'll go and do deeper work and
actually go figure out like, what is the hiring blog post I should write about?
And so Spark has helped me basically just sent be a sensor to sample the, you
know, the internet, the internet can tell me what they're interested in reading
about and then I can go produce that article.
And then the issue then is, okay, once I have something I think is important for
people, people to read, how do I meet people?
How do I make sure people click it?
And the punchy tweet for me has been a really valuable tool just because it
kind of helps me set the groundwork of a funnel that actually works, right?
If I write a blog post and then the tweet is just like today, I had a
conversation with a friend of mine and we talked about hiring and how it was
really hard, people don't really end up kicking the blog posts anyways, and it's
kind of like a unproductive use of time.
But oftentimes the, the punchy tweet has helped me just like get the traffic to
the blog posts and if somebody actually reads that and that's kind of one of the
things that has been really big for me is just, you know, understanding that the
work oftentimes won't speak for itself these days and you do need a little bit
of a push to sort of get people to click.
And that's kind of something that's been really helpful for me and Swarov.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You'll see that a bunch on my Twitter actually, like, yeah, like I do have some
like spammy tweets and then ideally I have the blog post that has a consequence
of taking all these, all these measurements.
Let's go through some of these questions are, I think are covering the, your way
to create these spirals yourself, but this last question I think is also
something I'm very curious about because it would really help with my workflows,
which is will you add the ability eventually like publish directly through
like an X or LinkedIn?
I think that roadmap looks like in general, I think is a question
people are interested in.
Yeah.
So I'll answer that question first, cause it's easier and then we can go
into what is the roadmap.
Yes, eventually most likely more like to do what you did MCPs with tools
like type fully or hyperate and like just have it go out like that, as
opposed to reinventing the wheel.
There's already these other tools that do scheduling content calendar, all
of that stuff really well.
And personally, I'm a big believer in focus and just like work on core
competencies broadly to get involved with like, what is the roadmap right now?
Spiral takes one thing, gives you another, but you're kind of stuck
with what it gives you.
So the two things that we're going to stop tipping, more sorry, the two
things that we're going to ship coming soon, one of them is a feedback tool.
I'm actually going to show it off.
It doesn't work.
Don't try to use it.
But sometimes spiral put out something, but it doesn't even know if it's good.
So we have this tool here where you can actually throw it a tweet.
And so I throw it a tweet that I was like thinking about making earlier.
It's going to ask you some questions.
And it's like, okay, then I'll see context of what it is.
You're going to put it out and then it's going to like actually evaluate your
tweet, like that's your hook and like work with you a little bit to improve the
tweet and we've been using this a lot, like take some of the stuff that spiral
puts out and just like double check it.
Or even when we're writing around to it, it's just be like, wait, am I even
writing something that's good here?
And so maybe this UI and this like way that it'll try now isn't what it'll end
up in the end product and we'll actually bring this back in to the way that
spiral works and have it think another time before it generates content.
But the idea is to like make it more of a partner for you to like write content
as opposed to, you know, just, Hey, give me a tweet.
It's like, Hey, give me a tweet.
And let's actually think about for a second, what is it that I'm trying to say?
And is it good?
And maybe it will prompt you to all of those things.
Like, Hey, here's the meeting.
This is the interesting idea.
Is this what you want to talk about?
But be a little bit more, you know, I hate to use the word, but a little bit
more agentic in that sense.
Yeah.
This reminds me of the other example where I think spiral has a really good
like newsletter introduction.
Those have been truly helpful where it'll be times where I'll have like two or
three guest lecturers come in and I want to send the email to tell everybody like,
Hey, there's been these like five really great talks.
And then again, spiral is able to just help me write a little intro for each one.
It says like, this is the thing you're going to learn.
This is the thing you're going to learn.
And again, you know, I think if I wrote it by myself, it would just be Danny
from far, I'll talk to about spiral.
Danny from every talk about spiral.
Take a look.
Whereas again, it'll just capture a lot of the work.
Gabriella asks, like, how does it handle other languages?
That's a great question.
So we have a lot of people who use it in a lot of languages.
So like English is number one.
French is actually second, which is surprising to me.
And then I'm also super surprised, but I'm seeing a lot of Chinese
and Japanese being used in there under the hood.
You know, like I said earlier, we're using Claude, so we're only as good as Claude is.
But if you give it examples in your language, it will then try to replicate in the language.
You can also say like, Hey, make this Spanish and let's see what it does.
Write this in Spanish.
Now, unfortunately, I only speak English, so I can't comment on how good the Spanish is,
but we have like the second most used language on spiral is French and then it's Spanish.
But I think it's like most of these models, very formal and you may have to go in there
and like write it yourself and then approve it.
Sorry.
Oh, I guess another question on my end is like, are you able to fork or share spirals?
Like I actually have, I used to have a spiral that wrote, writes proposals for me.
So it was a spiral, I had a bunch of different example proposals and it would take the first
sales call and turn it into a proposal with pricing information based on the conversation.
Is it possible for you to create one and then share it with the public or how does that work?
Yeah, top right corner, very similar to Google Docs.
I can share it with my team and we have like everyone on every right now in my team.
We can also just share it with the public and then you can copy a link and you can give
that to another spiral user and they can use it to their health's content.
In terms of forking, that's what the cloning feature is for.
You could just clone it and be like, okay, I like this, but actually one of the things
I want to change is this Seth Godin thing.
I don't like it anymore.
I want to use something from somebody else on my own stuff.
Awesome.
Let me just double check if there's any other questions.
If there's any other questions that are not on the slide, if you just say raise your
hand on mute and then we can do a couple of questions.
We'll probably wrap up in 15 minutes.
One second.
I can't see everybody.
Well, in that case.
Thank you so much, Danny.
I actually learned a couple of things.
I didn't know there was this extension.
I think that was going to be really helpful to help me promote some of my own blog posts.
I guess my last question is, will you ever handle videos?
Probably not.
Back to the point before, I think we're going to focus on written content.
It's still a world for us to do in making sure that we're getting people to write good
content as opposed to slow and that plus videos.
I think it's, you know, we'll end up just making rubbish tweets, rubbish.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Makes sense.
Makes sense.
I'm excited to get my hands on the spiral writing coach.
Awesome.
Thank you everyone.
Thank you, Danny.
Well, take care of them.
See ya.
Bye.
