dance methods are very practical, very easy to use, but they generalize quite
poorly and they have a lot of edge cases inspired by all of this.
So the idea is we encode a document exactly like how we would with a dance
embedder, but we remove the pulling mechanism.
You just give the PDF to it and then you can query it.
Okay.
So after I told this, rag is more than dance embeddings because
JSON's go block post that's called rag is more than embeddings, which kind of
focuses on the very product oriented stuff.
And I'm going to give a more like retrieval model slash research view on
this and so rags more than dance embeddings.
If you don't know what dance embedding is, I'll define that in a second.
If you do know, you probably do know what I mean.
So first thing about me, I do research and development at nsir.ai
and Jeremy Howard, who you probably know for fast AI and a bunch of other
like really cool people, my background's mostly NLP and retrieval, mostly
legal retrieval, I'm most famous on, I'm only famous on Twitter really for
raggedy and rerankers, which are basically libraries to make respectively
Colbert and re-ranking models easy to use.
If you don't know what Colbert is, this is the right talk because
that's like half the slides and I'm pretty unwell today.
So sorry if I'm like slowing a bit, et cetera, like the brain fogs not amazing.
I'll try and make it as clear as I can.
And with that being said, the agenda is a mini reminder of what dance embeddings
are, then a small section on lexical retrieval, which is likely the ancestor
of semantic retrieval, but also something that is very, very relevant today.
And we're going to see like a quick example of why this is something
that's been covered before.
So it shouldn't be that new.
Then it's beyond dance embeddings with multi-vector methods Colbert.
And that's, we'll not be brief.
That's how the thing then called Palai, which is something I'm very excited
about, which will make more sense once you know what Colbert is,
but brings Colbert to images.
And then there's code content, but I might share like my fuller version
of the slides later, which was about two-stage pipelines and how we rank
us work and how you can make your bank or work really well with your first
stage model.
This is just a teaser.
I promise there's no slide on this here.
Yeah.
With that said, then some buildings.
So then some buildings are called dance because they are a single
vector and that vector is dance.
That means you've got a thousand dimensions, seven, six, eight dimensions.
And every single one of them is a full floating point number, the full
integer, if you've quantized it, it's like that vector is a full vector.
And that is mostly, I'd say a pedantic distinction nowadays, because when
you see them referred to in just about any blog post or anything, that
just called embeddings.
When people say embedding search, vector search, they mean dance embeddings.
It's not always what this means.
Likely the arc of turning text into a single vector or an image into a single
vector is creating a dance embedding.
There's lots of pros to this.
They are very simple to use and get started with.
I think you've all seen the sentence transformer example.
You've all done RUG.
You know, how is it is to just text in vector out that simple.
They have a low storage footprint.
They're very intuitive.
It's quite easy to be like, okay, it was these numbers capture the
semantic meaning of your document.
And that's why they're everywhere.
That's why you use them.
That's why they're so powerful for RUG.
And I won't cover everything here because obviously you know what they are
probably if you're taking this course and they've been discussed a lot.
So why we'll talk about the bit more here are the shortcomings.
Why do they fail?
Why am I even advocating for other methods here?
And one of them is that they are very powerful, like I said, but they're also
given a completely impossible task because you're asking them to compress
information from hundreds of tokens or even thousands of tokens if you're
doing long context into a single vector.
And what that means is even if you have, I don't know, a thousand floats,
three thousand floats, you're not going to capture the full meaning of the
document, there's going to be some information loss at some point you're
going to miss out on something.
And what you're going to miss out on is going to be extremely influenced by the
pre-training of your model, because what will teach the model what information
it should keep because compression is basically the act of choosing what you
keep, choosing what you see as representative and what will be representative.
What will be kept by the model is something that will be relevant to the training
queries.
So your single vector is extremely influenced by this.
And what that means is that it will probably not match your data.
And Jason's a huge advocate for fine tuning.
And that's why, because if you don't fine tune your model, that aggressive
compression will result in information loss, which will result in information
loss for your specific use case.
And you will also nearly always lose fine grained details.
And I have an example on that in a couple of slides.
So I have taken a slide that you might remember here with permission from Joe
Berger, which is the missing baseline called BM25, more on that in a second,
which is just statistical analysis of your data.
There's very little to index.
There's no models.
It's very limited.
It's something that you should be doing.
It's something that people often don't report in their papers because it's so
good that it makes your very computationally expensive method look a lot,
a lot worse when DFIDF does so well.
And so the first question is why is it called BM25?
And it's because it took the authors 25 tries to get it to work.
Like there is a series of methods called BM1, BM2, up until BM25, which
produced good results and BM26 was worse.
So they decided it's best match 25.
It's our 25th approach at making this work.
We've been using that name since the seventies.
So they did well.
It's what it is, don't really matter.
If you're familiar with NLP, you will know what DFIDF mean, which is term
frequency, inverse document frequency.
All you really need to know in practice because those are scary words
about its term weighting.
So it's going to look at your entire corpus of documents and look at every
single word that ever gets mentioned there.
And it will basically rank them by importance based on how unique they are.
And then when you query the documents, you will type in a query, which will
have a lot of keywords in it.
And it's going to just try and find those keywords in the documents and see which
one of the highest weighted relevance score.
This works really well because we really love keywords.
If you ever like take a look at your user queries, you will see that.
I don't know if it's a natural human behavior or if we've been Google trained
from birth to the point where now we kind of type with keywords, like
we're always going to use one or two.
So you should always ensure you've got some sort of lexical approach
built into your pipeline.
And that's one of the most common representation methods that kind of gets
a lot less publicity than your methods, but it's very useful and a good example
as to why it's very useful, why you should use it, even if you've got the
world's best embedding model is this situation.
So let's say your query is what's the ULESS Texas shop profit for FY24.
So you've got a lot of keywords that sometimes, which is ULESS Texas and FY24.
But then you've got two documents or a hundred documents.
Don't matter.
One of them is Houston, Texas, FY23 profit.
And one is ULESS Texas, FY24 profit.
They both have like content.
We don't care about the content here, but to a semantic model to your
embedders, those like Houston, Texas, FY23 and ULESS Texas,
FY24 are virtually the same text.
Both of those titles will score 99 point something for your query because
semantically they are virtually the same.
ULESS is the suburb of Houston, FY23 it's FY followed by a number.
This looks identical to BERT or to like an embedding model.
However, to BM25 or to any form of lexical matching, this looks extremely
different because the score for FY24 in the first one is zero and the score for
FY24 in the second one is very, very high and likewise for ULESS and Houston.
So lexical matching is something you want to have just to handle those simple cases.
It will often come up, not necessarily in this easier form, but it costs virtually
nothing to add to your pipeline.
So why not?
This is why I mentioned earlier, this is from the BERT paper and BERT is probably
best known as the retrieval part of the MTEB.
So if you ever check the MTEB leaderboard, that is this benchmark.
And on the original paper, they included a bunch of fairly heavy duty
transformers based models.
And you can see a BM25 or something that came up in the seventies is remarkably
good and gets better as you go to longer documents because the more tokens you
have, well, the more words you have in your documents, the easier it will be
to match at least one keyword.
And this is the first of two academic tables in this, and I do apologize.
I know latex don't look amazing, but it's useful.
And then a quick, well, this is a section where I had to cut quite a bit, but
something that you will also come across or might have heard of.
So I thought I would mention it quickly is SPLADE.
And SPLADE is a neural network based approach.
Like dance embeddings, but it learns sparse representation because it's
basically using BANI transformer, but most commonly BERT, to create sparse
representations and what the transformer does is provide it with an expansion
mechanism, so it's able to infer like relevant vocabulary, which is not
actually in your query, but has strong overlap with your query.
And so it avoids cases like this one, which is in the, if you take our example
before with FY23 and FY24, or FY24, sorry, twice, but one time you go
FY24 with a space in it and the other, you have FY24 all attached.
For BM25, those are two different tokens.
So FY24 has a similarity score of zero with FY24.
PLADE has a learned expansion mechanism where it kind of will learn this overlap.
And this is an example from the paper or the screenshot here, where for BM25
Indonesia question mark is entirely different from Indonesia, no question
mark, and this happens a lot.
So SPLADE basically like why if we use the fact that transformers contextualize
token representations to expand on our terms and create BM25++, this means
that it captures some semantic content, but it's not very good at
actually understanding meaning.
So sparse methods, be it BM25 or SPLADE are not something that you're
meant to use on their own.
If you include them in your pipeline, it should be either as a first stage model
to then rerank documents or to use in conjunction with embeddings to do what
we call hybrid search and Joe mentioned this, where you will just combine the
score of your cosine similarity with embeddings with the score of SPLADE or
BM25 to create like sparse dance representations, which works pretty
well in a lot of cases, like it's one of the things that you see all the time
in the literature.
And that is the end of frankly, this intro section on the two things that
I will talk about without really talking about.
Call bear and light interaction.
So if you've heard of me, you know that I love call bear.
I think it's a great idea.
I think everyone should use call bear.
It does have trade-offs.
I'll cover them.
The other thing, and that's one of the many reasons why it's obscure, at least
up until relatively recently, is that it has many, many names.
The main mechanism is called multi-vector representations.
So if you see multi-vector somewhere, it's called bear and that's because it
uses multiple vectors to represent documents.
You will also read light interaction model and I'll try and explain this, but
it's basically because it keeps both query and document tokens so that they
interact at the latest possible time.
As in the only time where they will actually interact with each other before
being modified is at the very end when you score them.
When you do normal dance embeddings, they don't have this light interaction
because they've been pulled a long time ago.
Like they've been turned into a single vector.
So the tokens are never aware of each other.
Well, when you use call bear, they do beat each other at the end at scoring time,
which is why it's called light interaction.
It's not the most intuitive name, but you'll probably, if you use it, you'll
probably come to see how that works.
And then there's a why call bear.
Like we have lexical representation.
We've got sparse models.
We've got dance embedding that captures semantic relationships.
Why do we need this?
Why do we need a new method?
And it's essentially because all the methods that exist have drawbacks.
So sparse methods, they are very strong at keyword search.
Like they'll find the keywords.
They'll match like obvious terms.
They're not very good at any sort of semantic relationship.
Like they will not really understand the meaning of a document.
That's not what, that's not what they're here for.
Dance methods are very practical, very easy to use, but they generalize quite
poorly and they have a lot of edge cases and they'll never be perfect because
they're just so much compression.
And then the other thing is re-ranking methods.
So like cross encoders, which is essentially you give the same model,
the document and the query together.
So it gives a score for this document query pair are very powerful and
they're always the best scoring on benchmarks.
But the problem is you need to run it for every single query document pair.
So that's one model in France for each candidate.
So if you have a million documents, you cannot do that.
And so Colbert is inspired by all of this.
So the idea is we encode a document exactly like how we would with a dance
embedder, but we remove the pulling mechanism.
So like instead of putting it all into a single vector, if your document has 500
vectors, then that's 500 tokens.
Your Colbert output will have 500 vectors.
This obviously is costly in terms of storage and we do have ways to alleviate
that, but the first thing we do is add a turn casting layer and that's been
studied quite a lot, you can comfortably even turn down a thousand dimension
vector into 128 or 196 and that will still work because while the vector
itself is really small, its only job is you have to represent this one token.
So the task is much easier.
So that also gets under in training and the output is that every Colbert
represented document is a bag of vectors.
So if you have 300 tokens, you have 300 vectors and that will make scoring
much easier and how do we score this?
So it's always cosine similarity.
Every time you need to score something, it comes down to cosine similarity.
We hate it, but we don't have anything better than that.
And more precisely Colbert uses MAXIM which stands for maximum similarity.
And that is for each query token, we compute its cosine similarity
with every document token.
Then for each of those similarities, we will keep the highest one,
which is the maximum part.
And then we will sum all of those token level maximum scores.
So the final score for the query document for the events is the score of that sum.
And in practice, it looks like this.
These both happen at separate times, like the encoders are completely separate.
They meet very late in the MAXIM operator and we would put a single
similarity score at the end.
I wasn't very clear about that, but the lower dimension projection is just a
single linear layer at the end of the network, the way you would add a
classification head or a pooling head, which is add a single head at the end
that does like 768, if you're using BERT to 128 and that's BERT training.
And that can be added to basically any embedder, like you can train for
about half an hour to turn any embedding model into a Colbert model because
all you really need to learn about projection.
The other thing there is storing so many tokens.
Those seem quite impractical and it is because if you have 512 tokens in your
documents, then you have to store 512 vectors, which is 500 times more
than if you stored one vector.
This is pretty simple math and it does not look good for us, but the good
part of that is we do have the done testing layer, so those vectors are much smaller.
Then the second one is aggressive quantization.
That's actually quantization has become a hot topic now, but Colbert since
2021 has been quantizing to just two bits.
And that is because when you're doing token level representations, it's pretty
easy to actually delegate a lot of the token information to residual that will
like kind of represent this family of tokens, and then you only have to
store two bits for the actual document, for the actual token representations.
And there's also recent work from us, which has shown that you can
perform small scale pooling.
So instead of doing the whole like everything into a single vector, like
you would in a normal dance embedder, you pull tokens two by two or four by four.
And you manage to keep most of the local information still, but like reduce
storage by up to 75% without really losing any ritual performance.
And I'll get to that at the end, Jason, because we do have vector DB support now.
The answer is quadrant and we have yet and lands DB if you want to use it as a
rerun, and so this is kind of what it looks like at the start is terrifying
because you only got 300 tokens and somehow it's three megabytes or 3.6 megabytes.
You're not going to do that with dimension reduction.
You're already done to 0.6 megabytes, which is not a great way you can do it.
And if you introduce pooling and then to be quantization, you end up with around
kilobytes per document, which becomes quite accessible.
It's a third of 1024 single vector would take.
So this is much more heavy handed, but you can do it.
It's the message here.
And how does Colbert find the real world?
That's a question because I think we all know, or we all learn at some point that
there's a massive difference between an academic paper and something looking good
in a paper and then something looking good in your pipeline, because it's easy
to work with on benchmarks, et cetera.
And Colbert has been a weird paradox because it's been a favorite at all
IR conferences.
There's like around five to 15 papers talking about Colbert, studying parts of
it that like SIGIR every year.
And it's been very strongly adopted by like search startups, like Algolia uses
Colbert and Tannady a lot, things like that.
But up until earlier this year, very few people were using it.
And that's mostly because it's a fault from usability issues.
The original repository worked, but was really not friendly to use in any
sort of production setting.
And all the reproductions were equally academic code.
So nobody was really interested in putting it into production, except people
who are making money putting into production.
So they were interested in other people being able to do it.
So you kind of had this, if you know, you know, and if you don't, then we're happy
you don't because we're making more money.
Because earlier this year there's been, so there's been ragged too from me and
there's been Vespa having a strong Colbert push.
So adoption went up a lot.
We have yet is about to release Colbert support.
I think it's due this month, actually late in September.
Quadrant has Colbert support.
LensDB integrates Colbert as a re-ranker.
So it's not ideal because you still need a first stage retriever, but you can try it out.
There's a new backend framework named Pylate, which produces a local vector
DB like thing where you can create an index in memory for about 500 documents.
This will be in ragged to light in a couple of weeks.
So it will be a little bit easier way to try it.
So we're making progress on usability.
The Colbert V2 model, which is now four years old.
So it's very clear and antique in machine learning terms.
Went from, I think 50,000 downloads in January to now four to five
million a month on hugging face.
It's actually the most downloaded virtual model right now, which is quite cool.
So Colbert is seeing a lot of adoption because there's been a lot of recent
activity, which has made it like both more practical and more performant.
And that shows with the model we released recently at answer.ai, which
is only 33 million parameters, but basically beats all existing mini
models on the bare benchmark and even out of the main benchmark and it's
competitive with even large variants.
Like it's better than E5 large on all benchmarks.
So do give it a try as a rerun car.
If you're using LensDB, it's just a single thing to add at the end.
You can use it by using Colbert ranker.
I think it's called.
And this really cool thing, which I think Joe briefly mentioned in this talk, but
it did not crazy enough is that Colbert also does long contacts without anything
trained for it, and this part's a bit misleading because the only way to use
this right now is Vespa because nobody has a public implementation of it.
But since Colbert works at the token level, what the Vespa team does when
you're trying to embed a really long document is basically apply a sliding
window to the encoder and stores a token if needed for a given document.
Then does max him over those.
And that is basically state of the art for long document retrieval, at
least on a few benchmarks.
And it does a lot better on M3 or even like LLM based embedders.
So that has been really amazing work done by the Vespa team and done by Joe himself.
And this real world thing is something I want to segue into Colpalai because
Colpalai or Colpalais, I'm still not sure how to pronounce it.
The whole team's French, so we all say it with a French accent, which doesn't help.
It's a very, very recent development, which is basically a month old and it
uses Colbert like the late interaction approach to image tokens.
So if you've been following what's been happening, people are really
bullish on the vision language model.
So LLMs that look at images, look at videos and treat an image or video
token as just a token, so it's for us when the model is encoded, it is just a token.
Meaning you can manipulate it like a token.
And that idea is a massive step towards document understanding pipeline,
the very simple ones, like for proof of concepts in that 10 minutes.
And so right now, if you're processing documents, you are playing retrieval
to documents in a really extensive pre-processing heavy-handed way.
You're probably using unstructured or similar thing.
And that's a lot of steps.
Like you have to OCR to extract the text.
You have to clean up the output.
If there are images, how do you represent them?
Do you get an LLM to describe them?
So we do like textual retrieval, do you use clip embeddings?
If you've got tables, how do you represent the table?
Generally, I think most people would give it to an LLM and be like, please,
for the love of God, give me a very accurate description of what this table
is so the user can query it.
It's a lot of steps, a lot of steps that can break.
And more importantly, and it's something I don't like, it takes quite a while
to go from zero to 0.1 and 0.1 is generally where you want to test things.
And you will often need some custom components, which is even slower.
The other way people try to do it is that embedding documents as
images is not a new thing.
We've had clip for a few years and more recently we've had C-clip.
And those are basically just a way to embed images into a single vector.
But like we were discussing earlier, single vectors compress everything.
And it can work okay to compress text because ultimately text is not that
information down at the token level at least, but images are because so imagine
it, if you're doing text in a single vector, you need to plan the text.
If you're doing a page in a single vector, you need to plan exactly where on
the page the text is, what formatting is used, what the table looks like, what
the image looks like, and that has to all fit into one vector, even if there
are three images, one table and two paragraphs.
So in practice, all the ritual methods on documents showed strong information loss.
And that's kind of sad because vision language models can read.
Like it's been shown if you use Sonnet 3.5, Haiku, GPT-4.0, Quen 2.0, VL now.
They're very good at reasoning across a document that you give them as an image.
So that means that they can understand the content.
What's sad is that if we try to use that understanding as an embedding, it doesn't work.
Like it always does poorly and the Colpalai team tried a lot of things
and it always did poorly.
And their theory was basically that the degradation is just too much to overcome.
If you try to do it single vector, it's not going to work.
And they just kind of had the thing one day, but they are like, yeah, but
Colpalai works at the token level.
So maybe we can do image tokens at the output and it's worked really well.
So that's the second academic table.
All the ones in blue are the output of pre-processing the documents, like
putting your PDF through unstructured, some OCR, some captioning for the images
and tables in orange, you've got single vector image embeddings.
And then in green, you've got Colpalai, which again, Colpalai has no
pre-processing step whatsoever.
You just give the PDF to it and then you can query it.
And what's pretty interesting is it does really well across
every single benchmark they tried.
So it does well if you ask archive questions, but it also does well on
financial reports or medical reports.
So VLMs can read and Colpalai can use that reading to query documents.
But then the question you might have is in the wrong slide.
So I'll change what I'm saying.
The way it works is every part of the document.
So when you're using a VLM, it creates patches.
If you're using a Colpalai, it's 28 by 28.
And so you have to put 28 pixels by 28 pixels and we store a single vector
for each of those, and then when you query the documents, it allows you to do
like very powerful scoring again, those patches.
So here, if you're asking which how of the day is it over electricity generation,
the generation thing will match some aspects of the query.
And here we see what match the how token, which is this part of the document.
So we can see exactly all the hours being represented.
And this is what brought up this document as being relevant to this query.
And then the last step, because we're doing retrieval of wanted generations.
So you need some sort of generation.
And a question that I think people have with Colpalai a lot is you need to
steal extra information, like, okay, it's cool if you can do retrieval on images.
But then what do you do with your LLM?
It takes text as input.
And I've been finding a lot of people have been finding that the newer
VLMs are very, very good at reading.
They really understand pages.
So if you're doing a proof of concept, all you need to do is embed your PDF and
then literally pass an image version of that PDF to your VLM in context.
And you can ask your query as normal and be like, use this provided context.
And the context just happens to be document tokens of text tokens,
but to the model, it's the same.
And then yeah, it turns out your query based on that.
That's as simple as it is.
We had a use case recently where we were working with people who wanted to query
a 600 page documents and getting the production ready V0 for them to try.
It took about 20 minutes embedding time included and passing it to cloud.
Since we had absolutely nothing to do to the PDF except embedding it once.
There is some issues with Colpalai, which is that right now the storage is
around two megabytes per page.
So they are working on reducing that.
This is very much a V1, but it's a very promising approach.
And I think it's likely the future of document understanding.
And yeah, these are all the resources I mentioned.
If you want to refer to them at the end, a lot of papers, a lot of libraries
and a small Colpalai section.
And yeah, thank you for humoring my propaganda.
Sorry for the brain fog.
And I also want to stress because a lot of the time people take one extreme view
or the other as in dense vectors are useless or other models are too complicated.
So I'm sticking to dense vectors.
And I think neither of those are true.
I think multivector is better, but I think you're still better off starting
with something off the shelf, like Nomic embeds or VG embeds.
If you want to try something really quick and basically like Jason likes to say,
don't fix why it's unbroken, start with a simple pipeline, see what is broken
and then improve on that.
