So, you know, I think one thing that people always talk about is doing vector search,
right?
Doing vector search at scale.
And when I think of databases that are truly being used in production, I mostly think of
TurboFlocker.
They're the tool that Linear, Cursor, and Notion all use in the back end to do search.
And I think in conversations with those folks, it's always been the case that whatever provider
they were using before was very expensive, you know, very slow.
And I think in the past year or two, people have realized that, you know, TurboFlocker
has been a great solution, especially because it's backed on object storage, right?
It's a tool that gives you full text search, vector search, and as we talked about earlier,
you know, filtering and aggregations.
And these are all the ingredients you need to do search really well for the context of
RAG.
But also, I think in the future, a lot is going to happen in the context engineering
facets and aggregates allow you to give context to the language model to make more search
queries in the future.
And so today's guest, Simon, is the CEO of TurboFlocker, previously leading a pretty
big engineering team at Shopify.
And we're going to talk about some of the design choices that he's made, right?
How do you think about billion scale search, you know, bringing some real case studies
from the companies we mentioned before and how we think about things like tuning, recall,
and latency.
And so as always, if you have any questions, please ask them in the Slido link that we
shared on Zoom chat.
Upload the questions you want to see answered.
And with that, Simon, take it away.
Awesome.
Well, hello, everyone.
So when I proposed this talk, I called it a billion scale vector search on object storage.
Slightly revisited here now.
TurboFlocker is at a trillion scale now of not just vector search, but search in general
on object storage.
Today I want to talk a bit about the sort of the founding story of the company.
Like why did I decide to build the first version of this and then bring on my co-founder and
the rest of the team later on to productionize this a couple years ago?
We'll talk about how people use it and why they've decided to switch over from other
solutions and other storage architectures to this more novel storage architecture.
We'll talk about the storage architecture that makes TurboFlocker special.
It's the first completely object storage native database that exists and why this type of
architecture is so suitable for this era of search needs.
TurboFlocker at a glance is a search engine on object storage.
It can do semantic search, so classic vector similarity.
And we can do this on trillions of vectors that we have in production today.
It can do full-text search.
So it's not limited to just semantic similarity, but can also do traditional BM25 search.
And you can combine those two types to do hybrid search, which many of our customers
today are doing.
But TurboFlocker cannot just do semantic search and full-text search.
It can also do aggregations and group buys for facets that Jason and I were just talking
about earlier.
What makes TurboFlocker really special is that it has a new storage architecture.
In the storage architecture, all of the data is by default stored on S3 or GCS or Azure
Blob Storage, one of those three.
And then all of the caching is put in front of it.
So it works a little bit like a JIT compiler, where the more you run it, the more you query
it.
The faster it makes it up into the cache hierarchies.
It's literally the reason for the name is that the pufferfish inflates all the way from
deflated in object storage, where queries take maybe around 500 milliseconds, into disk
query, take tens of milliseconds, and into RAM, where they can take less than 10 milliseconds.
So that is the general architecture of TurboPuffer that makes it special.
And we'll go into that in a second.
So who's puffing?
We have lots of customers that we've worked with very, very closely to productionize and
make them successful in production.
Cursor was the first customer of TurboPuffer.
We've been working with them since they were a small team in 2023 and grown alongside them.
We feel we've grown really tremendously with them.
Notion, Linear, and others also work with them.
Superhuman recently went to production as well.
We've worked with one of the top AI labs and many other customers, hopefully some of which
you know and use.
There are many other logos.
You don't always get the rights right away, but this list will continue to grow.
So I want to talk a little bit about why you build a new database.
Many of you are likely aware there's been search engines since the 90s.
You had Sphinx, you had Elasticsearch, you had Lucene.
There's lots of different search engines that are all great for particular types of workloads.
I fundamentally believe that if you are building a new database and you're going to make it,
then you need two key ingredients.
The first one is that you need a new workload.
You need a reason for people to adopt a new database in their stack because it's a serious
commitment to adopt a new database.
It's a very sticky product.
It's difficult to migrate.
And the feature surface area can be something that is very varying across the different vendors.
So you need a new workload.
And the new workload today is to connect LLMs to enormous amounts of data.
And in some instances, also users to a lot of data.
But connecting LLMs to new data is really the newest workload.
Like in Jason's course, you talk about RAG, and that's literally what RAG is.
One thing that's also very interesting about this is that the new workload in particular
is very large.
If you have a kilobyte of text, it easily turns into, after chunking into four vectors of say,
20, 20, 1024 dimensions, which means that you have now 16 kilobytes of vectors from one kilobyte of
text.
It's really inflating the size of the data we call the space storage amplification or size
amplification in database parlance.
And some people even use dimensional vectors that are much larger than these in cases to get more
recall, more precision.
These are enormous.
And it means that one company, the company that I work with, where they were spending three grand
a month on their Postgres instance, and they wanted to vectorize all of their unstructured text and
put it into a vector index in another database, and it would have cost them 30 grand a month when
their Postgres was costing them three grand a month, which is prohibitive for their use case.
And it has been prohibitive for a lot of other use cases around the world, because when you do
this workload, you want to earn a return on the product that you can shift with that.
So the economics really become important.
The second thing is that you don't just need a new workload.
You also need a new storage architecture, because if you just have a new workload, then you can tag
it onto an existing database.
The reason why, say, this is not a great fit for something like Postgres and others is just because
of the enormous amounts of data that this is to store on a traditional storage architecture, which
we'll get into in a second.
Some workloads are suitable for this, which are, for example, vectors.
You need a new storage architecture to make it economical so that companies can earn a return on
it.
But some are not.
For example, when GeoSearch really blew up with mobile in the early 2010s, that didn't need a new
database because its coordinates are tiny, right?
And they fit it fine with all the existing databases.
But vectors in particular require a new type of index, and a 10x cheaper storage architecture
can really unlock new use cases.
The storage architecture that we can have today, that we couldn't have 10 years ago, and that no
other database is designed to take advantage of in the same way that TurboPuffer was when it launched,
sort of builds on three features.
The first one are NVMe SSDs.
These SSDs are incredibly fast.
They are only about maybe five times or four times slower than accessing memory if you use them
correctly and you drive for a lot of throughput.
But they're about 100x cheaper than DRAM.
So if a database really can take advantage of NVMe SSDs instead of DRAM, well, then you can
drive really good economics.
The second thing that you needed for the new storage architecture that TurboPuffer has is
that you need S3 to be strongly consistent.
What this means is that if you put an object on object storage, then you should be able to
immediately read it back and you know it's the same object, which you can probably guess is a
very nice primitive if you're building a database to avoid having a whole other coordination layer.
And then the third thing you need is for S3 to have compare and swap, which they only launched
in December of last year.
What that means is that you can get an object, mutate it, and then write it back and be guaranteed
that it wasn't modified in the interim.
This allows you to build a database that is completely object storage native and has
the economics that we'll go into in a second.
The architecture that you end up with is something fairly simple.
You have a client that connects to a binary.
That binary is the database and it accesses a cache.
It has a tiered cache into RAM when the puffer fish is fully inflated into SSD,
and then finally into object storage.
That is the overall very simple architecture of TurboPuffer that it's been since day one.
Let's talk about the economics because this matters because like I said,
you need those two raw ingredients to build a successful database company or why there's
room for a new database business.
RAM is expensive.
Costs about $5 per gigabyte, give or take with some error bars,
but around $5 per gigabyte is a pretty reasonable amount to pay per gigabyte of RAM.
Databases don't run entirely on RAM unless it's fully a cache because,
of course, you shut down the machine, the data is gone.
So generally, you store it on three SSDs, three copies, because even if one machine goes away,
you still have two other copies.
That costs about $0.60 per gigabyte of data stored.
This is how most traditional databases like Postgres and others will store data.
But if you store the data just in S3, well, it's $0.02 per gigabyte.
It's 20 times cheaper than storing it on three SSDs yourself.
And if you can then take the data that's in S3 and cache it with an SSD cache in front,
you're still a lot better off, but maybe not all of your data is even active so that
a percentage is always in S3 and a percentage is in SSD and a percentage is in RAM,
and you're paying exactly for the performance characteristics that you need
as the pufferfish sort of inflates on the subsets of the data sets that you need the most.
So these are improvements that are an order of magnitude better on real production workloads.
And we see some of our customers migrate and cut their first bill from their last bill with
their past provider by up to 95% by realizing this architecture with us,
simply because their workload is a really good fit for it.
We happen to think that most workloads are.
The thing that you need to do, and I alluded to this earlier,
to build a database that takes advantage of this is that you have to build an
object storage first database that is also round-trip sensitive.
What this means is that when you go to, for example, S3, the P99 on accessing an object on S3
is maybe 200 to 300 milliseconds depending on which object storage you use.
But in those 200 to 300 milliseconds, you can max out the network.
You can get an enormous amount of data back, but every single round-trip takes around that long.
This is very similar to how an NVMe SSD works.
It's just a lot faster than 200 milliseconds.
Every round-trip is around 100 microseconds, but you can drive a lot of throughput in every single
one of them, but you can't parallelize across a lot of reads.
In RAM, it doesn't matter as much.
Random read in RAM is very, very fast.
Of course, sequential is faster.
If you build a round-trip sensitive database, then it will work very well with S3 by going,
getting some data and then a little bit more data and then serving the query,
rather than doing lots of round-trips that are very slow and not getting a lot out of the data.
Works really well in SSD as well.
If we talk about vector storage and building this object storage round-trip sensitive data,
then we have to be very careful about how we lay out the vectors to do the vector search.
If you search in raw vectors and you just do an exhaustive search, it becomes very slow.
Because if you have a billion vectors, you have to search terabytes and terabytes of data
sequentially, either from object storage in disk or in RAM, which is very expensive.
Even if all of that is in RAM, for a million vectors, it will take you hundreds of milliseconds.
You can maybe squeeze it down, but it becomes very difficult to do
in an economical fashion if you're doing a lot of queries.
It becomes extremely prohibitive for doing cold queries on object storage.
A graph index is the very traditional way of doing vector search. It became very popular
as the first wave of vector databases arose. A graph index is also not suitable for an object
storage first or round-trip sensitive database that works well for disk and works well for
object storage. The reason for that is that when you navigate a graph, you get dropped in the middle
of the graph and then you navigate the graph by edges. Every single time you do that, it's 200
milliseconds at the start, then 200 milliseconds to get to the first layer, 200 milliseconds to
get to another layer, and so on as you navigate the graph. That's very good in memory because
you're not reading that much data and the latency is very low. But for disk and for object storage
where you're much more sensitive to the number of round trips versus the amount of data per round
trip, it's not a good architecture. This is actually the first wave of
vector indexes even before they became popular a few years ago, which are the clustered indexes.
What you do in a clustered index is that you try to do a natural grouping. You have a close cluster,
a food cluster, whatever the semantic grouping is, and then you put those adjacent on disk.
If you think about it very simply, you can think about it as on S3 there's a file called 1.txt,
2.txt, 3.txt, and 4.txt. Then for every one of those clusters, we take the average of all
of the vectors in the cluster and we create another file called centroids.txt or cluster.txt.
Now we only have to do two round trips to serve the query. We get all of the clusters from clusters
of txt, find the closest, say two or three, and then we download just those files. Imagine that at
a much larger scale, we can now max out the network neck to get all the centroids, then max it out
again to get the clusters, but only do two round trips. We can look at a lot more data with this
architecture and it works very well for disk as well. It happens to also work great in memory.
There's some chat here. I'll answer those afterwards. Of course, every database comes
with tradeoffs and we try to be very transparent in what the tradeoffs are because I spent the
majority of my career on your side looking at these databases all the time. The first question
is always, what are the tradeoffs? What are the limits? What is it suited before? What does it do
and what does it cost? The tradeoff for an object storage first database is that cold
queries can be slow. Once in a while, you'll hit a server that doesn't have the data in cache
and you have to go to object storage and no matter how much we optimize it, it's still going to be
hundreds of milliseconds, maybe half a second for that first query while we then start hydrating
the cache, inflating the puffer fish for that particular set of data. You can mitigate that
and still make it cheaper because you have a very cheap canonical source of truth for two cents per
gigabyte and you could always have it in cache and it would still be much cheaper than any other
storage architecture. But once in a while, you will have that cold query. The other limitation
is that you will have high write latency. Every time you write to TurboPuffer, you write directly
to object storage and you cannot beat that that's going to be 100 to 200 milliseconds of latency.
There's some economics with doing very small writes that are a little bit disfavorable to
some workloads, but it's not something we see very much. Those are the fundamental limitations.
They trickle into some other limitations like certain types of transactions being difficult,
but really these are the only fundamental limitations with this architecture. It means
that doing something like a very high transactional workload like Shopify where I worked before,
doing some transactional workload like that, would not be suitable to do a checkout system on a
database like that. But it is extremely suitable for indexing lots of data to search or letting an
LLM search because it's low cost. It's very simple, right? We're not the storage layer as the
hundreds or thousands of whatever amount of people work on S3 working on that for us. And same for
GCS on the GCP side. These are some of the most reliable, horizontally scalable and durable systems
on the planet. So we can focus on the indexing and the database itself. Warm queries can be just as
fast as in memory database once it's in cache. And we can get extremely high write throughput
and give this serverless experience where you don't have, where people don't have to think about
node types, how many servers there are and things like that, because that's really an S3 problem
that was solved a very, very long time ago. And this gives us this advantage where we see
write peaks of 10 million plus vectors written per second. And it works great because we can
scale as far as S3 can scale, which is, I mean, we haven't found the limitations yet.
So the architecture that you end up sort of building around this, it really also just the
simplest you can imagine. Every time a query comes in, it gets routed to the query node that is
responsible, that subset of the data with a consistent hash. And then if the query is cold,
we will go to obx storage, take a couple of round trips to get the data and serve it directly to
the user. It might be noticeable, but it's not going to be so slow that you're sitting in front
of the search box for a long time. Probably still be fast in a lot of searches that you find on a
lot of websites. As the cache hydrates very quickly at a gigabyte or more per second, then the
queries get much, much faster. For some of our customers like Notion, when you open the Q&A
dialogue to work with your data, they will send a request to TurboClub first to start hydrating
the cache for that particular namespace so that the subsequent queries are fast. Lots of companies
can have this kind of pattern where they have a hint that you're about to access the data and then
the cold latency goes down even further. On the right, you go to a query node as well, the same
query node, and then we just write directly into the cache to increase the probability that the new
data is also in cache so that subsequent queries are faster. One of the things that's unusual about
TurboPuffer's design is that all the reads are strongly consistent. So once you've made a
write to the database, it's immediately available on the next query with strong consistency
guarantees, which is also the kinds of guarantees that S3 operates. We think that this makes
systems more predictable and easy to reason about. You can turn this off for better performance, but
that's the default. When you write, we write into the namespace directory on S3. You can think about
a namespace as essentially a prefix on S3 or a table or something along those lines. And we write
into the write ahead log. The write ahead log is essentially just 0.txt, 1.txt, 2.txt for every
write that you're doing, and we do a bunch of batching to save on costs. Once we've written
enough data to update the indexes, then we will in the background use these indexers to compact and
move the full-text search, the vector index, the attribute indexes, and all the various indexes
that we build for the data to keep it fresh. The query nodes will then update the data
and the query nodes will then reach for the new indexes they get built and sort of page those new
keys into cache as they get queried. The performance of this ends up being really nice, right? When the
pufferfish is fully deflated, we still get really good cold latency. We can get as low on the P50
to almost 200 milliseconds for full-text search workloads. And the P99 even is around 500
or 600 milliseconds. This depends a lot on S3 and all of their caching and things like that,
but we do a lot of things in the background to do hedging and so on to try to keep this latency
down as much as possible. When it's in cache, it's as fast as many other systems. The majority
of the time here in the variability is really that for every single query we go to S3 and make sure
that we have the latest data, right? Again, SuperPuffer doesn't have any other metadata
to make sure we serve consistent queries. If you turn this off, all this latency goes down and I
think even the P99 is probably less than 10 milliseconds if you're okay with eventual
consistency. I think we can talk about this if anyone gets into it. Let's cover some of the case
studies here and then we'll turn it over to Q&A in about five minutes. So cursor is one of our
use cases and I'll talk a little bit about how they use TurboPuffer. So with their previous
solution, they were using an in-memory vector database, which is really the first generation.
In-memory and always in-memory makes a lot of sense even for something like Shopify where
you're going to have the entire catalog being queried all the time. Well, you might as well
have it in memory and the economics of TurboPuffer is still a lot better, but you might still be able
to earn a return even on it being in memory on a more traditional storage architecture.
But for something like cursor, not every code base is active all the time. At any point in time,
some percentage, I don't know, like 1%, 10%, I don't know what the real number is, but some
percentage of the code bases are active at any point in time. Those can be in memory or on SSD
and then the rest can be in S3 or GCS or wherever this code base is stored.
So every single code base then in cursor is just a prefix in S3. That can be tens of millions of
these at any point in time before they get GC'd out. So this pufferfish architecture really lends
itself very, very well for a cursor code base where as soon as you open a code base, we can
start hydrating the cache for the namespace and then all of the rag that cursor does will become
faster. If you use cursor today and the agents and things like that, you will see that it often does
semantic queries like, hey, where in the code base does it do this? And that's using TurboPuffer
behind the scenes that cursor is keeping up to date that uses embeddings and re-ranking and so
on to draw the right context in. So this helps cursor both optimize their inference by finding
the relevant context and as little of it as possible, but also find things that can be very
difficult to find with grep or even letting the agent grep around. So in my experience using
cursor agent, it's very good at these kinds of tasks where an agent might need a lot of attempts
to grep because they can find it right away with a semantic index. Cursor has their own embedding
model and yeah, are very good scale. When they move to us and move to our storage architecture
from the previous provider, they cost their cost by 95%. One thing that excites me more than cutting
the cost for our customers is for them to realize the most ambitious version of their product. And
in cursor's case, this allowed them to index much, much larger repositories than was economical for
them before. The other thing was that before on the traditional storage architecture, they had to
be very careful about which servers had what code bases and do all this bin packing. With TurboPuffer,
they don't have to do that because it's horizontally scalable into as many namespaces as they want to.
Notion is another customer of TurboPuffer and they saved millions and millions of dollars when
they moved to our storage architecture. It's also very suitable for a Notion. You have a lot of
workspaces and some subset of them are active at once and now you can realize those economics.
They have more than 10 billion vectors, they do really large right peaks and have millions of
namespaces for all of their data. One of the things that I really liked was that once Notion
moved to us, they removed all the per user AI charges and they've been really, really good
partners to us. The last use case I'll show here is Linear, another one of our customers.
They were dealing with Elasticsearch and PG Vector before and they wanted something that
was really hands-free where they can just bump in all the data, they didn't have to worry about it,
they don't have to think about machine types and they didn't need anyone to operate it and be on
call for it. They got the cost reduction but that just made them more excited to connect even more
data into the LLMs. They really think about us as this foundational search layer. I think every SaaS
is now expected in the same way that 10 years ago we expected all of our SaaS to ship a mobile app.
Well today we expect every SaaS to have a semantic search. We expect them to have some kind of
agentic mode, research. We're going to expect a baseline of AI features as these SaaS platforms
evolve and for Linear they really thought of us as the foundational search engine for all of that.
With that exactly on the 30-minute mark, I will hand it over to you, Jason.
Oh you know that. I mean you're free to continue any other sides. I saw some pretty interesting
slides in the appendix but let's jump into some questions. Yeah, I definitely sort of see the
case for these cost optimizations. Maybe not in 2025 but I remember in 2023 I was talking to some
companies where they were using some sort of quote-unquote like legacy vector search systems
and it was the case that they could not go GA until they moved to typical cluster and those
kind of stories is kind of what really caught my attention earlier on in those days. Just looking
at some of these questions, I feel like a lot of these are actually just comparisons against other
search systems. People are really curious about tools like Elasticsearch and Quadrant. I think
you know generally when I think about things like TumbleFuffer, I think about the fact that
you know Notion, Linear, Cursor, they have these really well-defined partitions. There's like a
workspace, there's a repository. But what would it look like for TumbleFuffer to power something
like a Twitter or e-commerce where there's just no natural partitions here or maybe there are. I'd
love to hear your thoughts on that. Yeah so the petitioning was really a go-to-market move right.
Every startup's weapon is focus and our focus is that the only thing that scales even now is
sharding. I learned that at Shopify we shart on shock for everything and so we felt that a really
good way into the market was let's give people unlimited sharding and give them a really good
experience with lots of many shards right. That was cursor and notion. When we used to not be very
good at large shards right. If you were in 10 million we would actively tell people no go use
something that's been around for a while, go use pine cone, go use quadrant, something like that.
We are not that is not our ICP. Now we're very good at that. We have customers that run in
production that have namespaces that are in the hundreds of million. We're working with customers
on basically building Google right. Like they want to search a hundred billion documents all at once
and that's what we're working on. We have customers that are searching one billion plus documents
and we are getting very very good at this. The trick here is that we when you search and this
is the same with elastic search any system that's scaled does some kind of sharding right to use
multiple machines. The trick is you want the shards to be as large as possible. A small shard is like
when I ran elastic at Shopify we were targeting our shard sizes at around 30 to 50 gigabytes
and so if you have a data set that is in the hundreds of terabytes which billions of products
easily is you have to search you know m times log n or whatever the whatever the complexities
of your searching that's not actually the complexity of an inverted index but let's say it's
log n well if m is very high you're spending a lot more computational resources than making the
m smaller and the n higher so you want the larger shard sizes you can and that's what we're trying
to work that's what we're working on right now to get very very large individual shard sizes.
So in order to do 100 billion you have to do probably 101 billion indexes but we will continue
to make those as large as we possibly can. I think in terms of implementation of this
for very high throughput and in-memory quadrants implementation seems like something that
some of their customers that I've spoken to have really good success with. I think where it starts
to get difficult to maintain an HNSW at that scale is if you have a lot of churn in the data
and you're doing very high write throughput so we'll get there it's not a fundamental
compromise in our architecture we won't get good at it I think we're going to get exceptional at
it and I think the results of the POCs right now are quite good. To compare us to Elasticsearch
it's really that traditional storage architecture right I was I've been on call for Elasticsearch
which it's probably the worst database I've operated in my life and part of this company
is my vendetta against it so I do have some bias but it's probably gotten a lot better since I
worked on it almost 10 years ago but it has a more traditional storage architecture right of two or
three SSDs you run those at about 50% utilization and the shards are smaller so it can be difficult
to realize the economics you need right. At the end of the day an infrastructure decision is a
set of trade-offs and then economics you can earn a return on so if you have a per user cost
of your elastic cluster whatever cluster you're using of $10 per user and you're charging in $20
well that's not a good return right and so what we want for you is to increase the ambition of
your product index more data and have a better return so you can get to your the gross margin
that you need to get to. Yeah we're practical I definitely like that a lot um I guess one question
that came from adam actually is around cache controls the question is what kind of cache
controls do you hand over to the user and how much tuning typically goes into achieving these
cost and performance goals? So by default we don't really want you to think about it um so for example
if you use s3 or or in gcs you can you can turn on auto classing what that means is basically if you
don't access the data for a while then it just goes you know somewhere else you access it again
then it goes to a lower storage class that's how we think about turbo buffer as well so we want to
default to really good cache behavior we don't want you to have to think about it we don't want
you to have to configure a namespace to be cold or warm um so you don't have that many controls
because generally our users don't need it there's very specific edge cases like this case I'm
talking about about searching 100 billion web documents well if you're doing that then yeah
we're gonna like work with you a little bit on the caching before we know the heuristics to get this
right at that scale because it's a difficult bin packing and cache problem but for most other
workloads the default behavior is phenomenal the main control that you have is that you can send a
hint cache warm request to turbo puffer if it's not in cache we will charge you one query and start
hydrating the cache and if it's already in cache it's free um that's the main trigger that you have
today and it works great that's um oh I wasn't aware of this one but one of the questions is
will you remove the minimum spend requirements at some point for these smaller use cases
I don't know if that's yeah it's it's a good question so I think that if you have a very small
use case and you already have a postgres database you should like you could probably get away with
pg vector I think as as as we mature our product and think that we can provide you um that we're
less of a knife and more of like you know um a drawer of tools to help you do your search then
I think that it makes sense to do this the main reason we have the minimum spend requirement is
because we really want to give people a really really good experience we take it a take it as
an extremely serious commitment that you are trusting us with your uptime and scaling a support
team and an on-call pager and all of that to be extremely responsive if there's any issue even if
it's not by us um that's that's why we have that minimum spend requirement it is not an infrastructure
minimum it's nothing like that it's really just to guarantee a good experience um and over time
people we will lower it we definitely will um and it's not that we won't have a free tier ever um
it's just not the right choice for us right now uh to to have a free tier and supported with the
high quality support that we've come to pride ourselves on I think that makes sense um I guess
another question I'm also curious about because I noticed this in cursor sometimes which is that
you know maybe for notion documents and for linear tickets there's not much editing
of these of these data objects but you can imagine in cursor if you change a file very quickly and
make another query um how do you think about refreshing the index and how should we think
about designing such a system and maybe like a little more right optimized yeah so I mean
first off turbo buffer is very right optimized it's partially very right optimized because
cursor does a lot of rights and notion does a lot of rights um I think there's there's there's
a couple of angles to to talk about this question from so the first one is that and this is a
realization that many of our customers have made and the first time was explained to me it's like
oh yeah this makes a lot of sense um if you're doing full text search you'd kind of almost want
to re-index on every keystroke um because you know you you change from turbo to turbo puffer and
it matters the semantic meaning of a chunk doesn't change on every single keystroke in the same way
especially if you're using hybrid search so we've seen some customers that um also because
creating the embeddings is often much more expensive than than storing it in turbo puffer
right so we see customers that find some compromise that makes sense to them they do the
vibe check of like how many characters how many bits what's the added distance before we have to
re-embed and the semantic um has has has um semantic meaning has captured enough and then
debounced by some time right after some time you always make the change that's very common I think
it's a very interesting observation um the second thing is just that there there is an economical
like there's an economics piece to it right do you want to do this like all the time or do you want
to do this every minute or how how's your pipeline set up um it costs money to keep these a and n
indexes up to date and so you have to make some reasonable compromise here that you can earn a
return on um I think we're very sympathetic to users where um that that want to do a lot of
rights and so the system is heavily optimized for it um but it's a it's a choice made by by
by the users and it's not something that we really provide any particular constraints on
lots of our customers do it close to every keystroke and it's generally driven by the
economics of creating the embeddings. Makes sense um on the top of the embedding this is the question
that a couple folks upvoted which is uh is turbo puffer sorry is turbo puffer optimized for late
interaction like models like culbert where you're storing like multi-vectors per chunk
so so um it it is and it isn't it is in the way that one of the largest challenges with late
interaction models is what I you know this is like my pet peeve today apparently it's very hard to
earn a return on because it's an enormous amount of data it is the best or some of the best um um
precision that you can possibly get you can do it with turbo puffer um I can I can I can share a
share a gist or I can send it to you Jason and like kind of a paceman on how to do it with turbo
puffer right but like fundamentally all it is is that for every token you send a top k of let's
say a thousand you do like you know like let's say you have 10 tokens in the query then you do like
all of those you can do a multi-query turbo puffer you get that back and then you do a second layer
of queries you don't have to get all the vectors and then you have your late interaction result
the question is whether the you can live with the economics of it right you can squeeze the squeeze
the embedding small enough you have 16 and all of that and we will continue to optimize the economics
um I've had that pace been around for six months I haven't seen anyone who's put it in prod yet
I think someone here should put it in prod and we would love to work with you because we have the
multi-queries and it's totally possible to do in turbo puffer now what you need for realizing
late interaction in in performance and part of the reason why it's not adopted is really just
comes down to economics right how much are you willing to pay for that extra 10 to 20 percent
of precision that you can get with late interaction over like some of the late
chucking techniques and other techniques that you can otherwise use but if you have something where
you have a small amount of data and you just care about precision I think you should try it and
in turbo puffer probably by far be the most economical way of doing it um but no we don't
have a here's here's like all the vectors do late interaction you have to string it together right
but it's very simple to string together on the side of economics with embedding models one of
the questions here is around uh quantization does hyper buffer do its own quantization internally
how do you think about optimizations on that front or is it the sort of developer itself who's
responsible for writing these vectors up in the type of offer yeah so we do we do we do quantization
and like clustering and all kinds of things right to to optimize the performance of your index
um if you send us smaller vectors then uh we'll index the smaller vectors at this point we don't
support like int8 or binary vectors but we will the smaller you will be able to send them the
better the economics and the performance is going to be because if you send us a you know f32 1024
dimensional vector I have to store that in full precision because you want to be able to export
that later on at full position so I have to charge you that way right so if you can pass on something
quantized well then you don't have to store the full position one so it sort of becomes a bit of
like I guess sort of an API problem but the other thing is just like getting all the SIMD
instructions right for all the all the different architectures and things like that for all the
different quantizations is just what takes a bit of time and we find that most of our customers
are very happy with the economics of f16 but we'll continue to quantize smaller and smaller as our
users request it but I think fundamentally the way that I look at it is that um quantization
I think quantization and the number of dimensions is I mean maybe I've talked to the embedding
providers around this and it's like roughly right but it's like what matters is like how many bits
of information are you passing right and one lever for that is how many bits you have per dimension
and then the other lever is how many dimensions you have and so whether you have an f16 that's
like 100 dimensions or you have a binary vector that's like you know much many more dimensions
but then you know one bit per dimension it's the same number of bits that are there to compress
and project a learned representation into so you should be able to fundamentally get away with an
f16 that's a lot smaller if the embedding model is is optimized enough and that's what we've seen
from some of the sophisticated users they just drain on f16 because it's extremely optimized
in the q2 pipelines performs really well and then they do the like the truncation and normalization
with the metrioshka learning um to get a really good representation um but yeah that's probably
a way longer answer than they wanted okay now this is all very great I feel like this is the
first time again this is a great technical talk um this question's pretty good so you know they
said this might be answering the session it wasn't answering the session uh they have a lot of
questions around turbo flippers facets and aggregates and how they're actually useful for
text-based rag right maybe in the legal context um given that you are shopify could you talk a
little bit more about like how maybe facets could be used in the traditional context and then we can
maybe extend into the like agentic context yeah I think you should talk a bit about the agentic
context because I know that's something you're very excited about and we share the e-commerce
pass so I'll talk about it there um I don't know if this is still the case but actually I was actually
part of the team that shipped facets at shopify and we actually did it on my sequel because in
all the collections in shopify were not powered by search they were powered by my sequel collections
and then the search facets were different um so there it's just a big you know select group by
union that's like really what it is um so how are facets used well I mean in an e-commerce concept
right it's it's used as like okay um I'm doing this search and I want the I want like all the
different colors so like blue orange whatever right so it's really a like select count from
table group by and then the facet whatever you want to facet on so you might want to facet on
color you might want to facet on size and then there's some really weird ones like um faceting
on price because with price you want to roll this up into some like distribution that makes sense and
the card analog is very high but fundamentally it's really about like when you go to an e-commerce
site and you do a search on that left hand side you want to have some relevant filters popped up
I'm sure all of you have seen really bad faceting where it's like they have every single price
listed on the left side and like every size and there's like red burgundy maroon and it's just
like no I don't care like I want this to normalize right um the the form of faceting that's in
turbo puffer today is like very simple and it doesn't support every single one of these cases
like faceting on a vector search is like kind of funky because a vector query has a result
for every single entry in the data set so you kind of need to like pass a threshold and then
facet on that um so you might want to facet on the full text search as part of the hybrid search
so it's it all gets a little bit funky but we're sort of expanding that with feedback so if any of
you are turbo puffer customers are about to be um you should drop that kind of feedback into community
channel um but Jason I think you should speak about it in the agentic context
yes totally so I think you know one of the things we think about in terms of like what is the
difference between like as traditional vector search versus this like context engineering
is the fact that in the context we're trying to give it clues give the agent clues to make
better use of tools in the future right so you can imagine the a simple file search might just be a
text input and then I return 10 chunks right but what if I could also go back and say you know what
of these 10 chunks you know actually 45 percent of the chunks that would have been returned come
from this file or this directory right if we include that in the context and then we tell the
agent you know what if you make subsequent queries we can return you full pages from a document right
if we if we think this is useful we can return for you whole documents from a like whole pages
from like a pdf you might be able to load better data in the future right a simple example encoding
agents could be something like using grep or using find if you make the find command really what you're
doing is you're kind of counting the number of files or how many files have how many occurrences
of a certain keyword and then the next tool you call is a read file tool that recognizes that the
find query has resulted in some file that is really relevant right and this is because we've
designed a portfolio of tools with a range of parameters that you can use to against filter
against and do all these other interactions and so by having more information in the search result
in the form of facets we can then use those facets to make better searching searches in the future
this is the same thing in e-commerce right maybe i am searching for shoes and so my first query
is just shoes and then maybe i get two facets maybe i get a brand facet and then i get a you
know stars rating facet and i realize oh what i actually want is i wanted five star shoes for
nike under the 50 dollar price point i can click those three facets and make a new search query
that's just you know maybe you know find me running shoes filtered by nike filtered for stars filtered
by price and you could imagine a sophisticated agent could have done this in one step but the
truth is we didn't have that context right i did not know there were so many nike shoes i did not
know i had the ability to filter on stars i did not know what the reasonable price filter is but
by providing that in context you can whittle down your search right and this is really going down
to this idea that even with worse search tools because these agents are so persistent as long
as you give it more context and the context can be used to call the tools in a better way you're
going to get better performance and i think that's one of the things that many of our databases allow
which is the ability to provide additional context around data that wasn't returned
and that's a pretty long-winded answer but that's kind of why i'm excited about some kind
some things like this because elastic search provides them but not many meta databases
i'm curious if you have any thoughts on that no i mean i think it makes sense i mean i think i had
this in one of the slides but it's like every every successful database ends up implementing
every query um i think one of the unfortunate thing about the the way that the query language
has evolved in elastic search is that it's very very difficult to use and it's very difficult to
understand what's important and that's one of the strengths that we have right and in working closely
with our customers and feedback from people like you jason is like um we can have some opinions
but by just way of whatever order we ship features in of what matters to the context um and i like
this i i like the framing of i just want a summary of what's important about everything that wasn't
in the top k like that that just like you as the database person um know that could be done in a
reasonable latency estimate right um and so i think i think that's great and really interesting feedback
yes i guess i mean to answer the question the legal domain you can imagine an example where
maybe i am searching for some clause in a legal context and so i return 10 text chunks that have
the clause but maybe what i actually recover is that the fact that i have some facets on the
file name and i realized you know 90 of the clauses came from three files the agent might then say you
know what i'm not going to do my semantic search query next i'm going to just load the whole damn
pdf right because the pdf says this pdf id has been referenced 10 times by the semantic search
just read the whole damn file right and it's a separate cool tall read file versus a search
chunks tool and that could be another example of that i think in legal i mean i i don't know
anything about legal other than um like my the contracts that i have to read right but like i
could imagine that i if i'm searching in my contracts i want to know like by customer right
and then be able to filter to that because i have like a custom dpa a custom msa i might have like
some amendments to the agreements blah blah blah right um i might want to search for like what
lawyer worked with me on this right who was involved who was the signatory right like all
of these different things that are just essentially these follow-up filters that both a human and also
an agent would find really interesting to discover in the data um that i mean at the end of the day
right like what the new that what something like turbo buffer really just needs to do is to allow
humans and agents to converse with the data so we need to provide all of the queries that can do that
and so faceting is a part of that because there might be hundreds or thousands of different colors
right in a collection and we can surface some aggregate that makes sense because it doesn't
make sense to load a billion records into a context window right the computations required
on the attention to do that is just not possible to earn a return on so what does that database
look like well it's going to have some kind of fuzzy search but it's also going to have some
other massaging of the data that you can do to pivot the data around and massage it uh to explore
interesting things about it that's correct that's correct all right we have four minutes left you
know the question i generally ask everyone at the end is you know what is something you feel like
folks are not thinking about when they are thinking like reasoning about these kind of systems um
yeah i'd love to think yeah when people are building these things what's something you think
people are not thinking about these days that they should i think they're not thinking about
the latency of the embedding model um there's a lot of embedding models out there and um i'll just
pull a very concrete example because it's one of the most widely used the open ai testing getting
text embeddings are great but the problem is that they have very high p50 latency the p50 latency you
get is 300 milliseconds well it doesn't matter that the turbo puffer latency is eight milliseconds
when it takes 300 milliseconds to create a query vector so we've seen from customers where they
create hundreds of million billions of embeddings with and it's not just open ai there's lots of
these um with an embedding provider with it latency is very high and then they use it fine
for these agentic and q and a workloads but then they're like okay it's time to like do real-time
search and it's too slow and they've already like created all these embeddings and again it's not
like people are not right now limited by the turbo puffer cost they're limited by the embedding costs
um and re-embedding everything to switch models like it's like it sucks and so don't fall into
that trap make sure that if that's a use case that you care about that you do that latency
we've seen we've seen great latency from from from models like cohere and gemini
i think voyage has also really gotten very good at latency and last i tested vagina they also had
pretty good latency but there are some of the models that really just don't have very good
p50 latency um so just make sure that you test it because um and it it matters for you to test it
and not just take blanket advice because the latency from the region that you're in to whatever
region that they're in also matters because that's the region where they get the cheapest gpus so
that they can earn a return again you know that's what it all comes down to so you want to do that
testing for yourself it's very easy to do you can ask cursor or whatever coding agent of choice
you're using and it can do this test for you in like five minutes but you've got to do it so you
don't paint yourself into a corner that's actually a great answer this i should just go out and like
make this run script that people can just try out and benchmark everything against you should
you should do it in your course because legally you can't do it on the public because
all the tos's prevent you against it perfect yeah we'll do that as the next action item um
with that said you know if there's any other message you want to have for the audience if
you just share that now and then i'm going to follow up with you afterwards get some links
and we'll distribute them in the uh the reader notes yeah i mean was yours no not not really
come puff if uh if any of this resonated everyone else thank you for tuning in we'll send the
recording the notes afterwards and again simon great talk learned a lot and you know see you around
thank you all
