How can generative AI improve classical lexical search?
Today's episode of Systematically Improving Rag Applications, I'm really
excited to invite my friend Doug Turnbull.
He was a search engineer at companies like Shopify and at Reddit and overall
has done incredible things in the space.
One of the things we'll talk about today is how he improved search relevance.
Shopify by 10%.
Sorry.
Excuse me.
Revenue by 10%.
Anyways, stay tuned.
Cool.
Yeah.
You can find me at softwaredoug.com.
I worked at Shopify where I was able to help with the team that increased
revenue GMB by 10% through search.
And then Reddit, we've launched some of the most, some of the historically
best performing A-B tests in the history of Reddit search using Learning to Rank.
And there's much of stuff I've done.
There's a new book, AI Powered Search coming out and Elastic Search Learning
to Rank is something I worked on.
So lots of cool stuff out there.
I really enjoy working in this space.
I do it because it's fun.
I do it because I like to learn.
Don't do it because I have all the answers.
So I really appreciate feedback and I really appreciate people asking good questions.
I wrote a blog article you might've seen recently about how juniors are so important
because they ask insightful questions.
They don't come with a lot of baggage.
And yeah, I really appreciate those kinds of questions and learning for people who
have less experience than me in the field.
You might most, it seems like increasingly, especially in this world of sort of like
dev evangelists, we've got, you may have presumably in your rack course, you talk
about BM-25 and of course there's some new thing that some maybe add, especially in
more academic conference where you have vector search, transformer, ranker, two tower,
crossing curve or whatever that works better against some BM-25.
And this is a pretty typical pattern, redefined search for all time.
And I'm actually going to take a different tack, which is we have these LLMs.
Can we use them to make the improve?
And there was a lot of value in doing that.
The other thing that we often have and when we run experiments is a beautiful
experimental data sets.
This is just Ms.
Marco passage ranking data set and everything is nicely chumped.
Everything is pretty clean.
And of course the real world of the data sets that I work with are not at all like
that and they're very messy.
And, you know, it's kind of a meme that a lot of things we do with data, data
engineering or machine learning is just cleaning data right.
And LLMs of course offer a great opportunity for that.
And this is, you're going to see, I'm going to use this data set called one,
which is Wayfair annotated something data set, but it's a search furniture data
set from Wayfair that they nicely provide and they have a set of labels.
So great is what I say for label zero to two, two is most relevant, but you can
see here, some results maybe aren't coming back or PM might ask, and maybe
it's because we have a lexical search over a product description.
It doesn't even matter if we, maybe we even do a vector search and just the
fact that these are missing is a problem.
Pretty basic stuff.
And when we actually go and debug our data, we find these kinds of problems.
Or sometimes we get stuff back and the data is just wrong, right?
The product description, notice how the name is kids desk, but the product
description is office chair and that's creating pretty misleading results.
If we search for kids desk and there's a direct match on that with a lexical
search system, that's going to create problems, right?
I mean, it's even going to create problems, any kind of search system.
So, and these are marked as irrelevant and you look at the name and you
think they should be relevant, but then you, maybe you see a picture and you
actually see the description, they're not actually relevant.
A lot of people go down this rabbit hole, maybe where they have, they see the
cool, exciting paper or your way of building search, but they don't actually
take the time to look at their data and see what is actually wrong and really
you could just get a lot started and I'll start to talk a little bit about
methodology for those just by starting by labeling data, figuring out why
boring old BM-25 baselines don't work and fixing data problems and LLMs can
help with that.
LLMs could be a big boon for that, right?
LLMs can generate product titles and product descriptions that are more useful.
You can even use things like clip to generate these things from images too,
which are sometimes very much more consistently available on product
catalogs.
There are many ways of labeling things, hand labels, engagement based,
LLM based labels even, and you can, it's really like one thing I encourage people
to do is just to get started looking and seeing a very small data set, what's
going on.
So before we even get into, you know, what cool prompts I use in that kind of
stuff, I think it's important to talk about the carthagology of all this stuff.
So one thing I think is really important and a theme that I will talk about a lot
in this talk and all my talks is doing some prototyping before bedding the farm.
And by prototyping, I don't even need thousands of queries.
I literally need started with 10 queries.
So here I've got like 10 queries that I've taken just for early exploration.
And if I can't make these 10 queries improved, I'm going to say it's probably
not worth moving forward.
Or if I figure out a way to make maybe a couple of them approved, maybe there's a
way of targeting the improvement.
But really if I can't, if it's like neutral for 10 queries, it might not be
worth moving forward.
So you guys have probably talked about a DCG, and this is just your normal metric,
a ranking metric telling us whether or not we're moving good step towards the top
or not.
And you, there's a very limited DCG that I really like to use, especially when
prototyping because it's like filters out things that are unlabeled.
So a big problem when people look at DCG stats is we get results back all the time
for bar corpus that don't have labels.
So there's a couple of things you could do with this.
And one of the most important things that you should do when you're systematically
improving at any ranking system is really, really understand what you're
measuring and every variant of DCG and DCG.
I think there's as many variants of these as companies I've worked for or done
something for.
They're like all over the place.
And I try to be really specific about what I'm measuring.
If you go to some academic people, they'll say this is actually what DCG should be,
which is we filter out the irrelevant or the unlabeled results, keep irrelevant
results.
So we sort of are measuring ranking, but only within the universe of the labeled
results set.
And this, you should be skeptical of anything, right?
This is just one way of measuring.
But what this is really answering the question, what this is really measuring
is within the universe of label results, are we at least good enough to move
relevant results above irrelevant results?
Now, what is totally about questions is if relevant result is one and irrelevant
result is one and relevant result is a hundred and then there's an irrelevant
result and rank thousand.
Is that really a fair comparison?
You can get really fancy with these metrics, but for the most part, this has
typically been pretty good for the kind of prototyping work that I like to look
at.
And then if we have 12 or so queries, we could take those labeled docs.
Maybe we fix up a title or the document and we have enriched docs and we can run
a little experiment.
We can get rank results back and we can then ask a question like, did we improve
this?
And we're looking literally at like 10, 12 queries or whatever.
We just want to see like, okay, where are the big problems?
Where are the big gaps in why something like the M25 doesn't work?
Like I talked about before, why are, why is this one thing I haven't talked about
is one thing you, we would want to do when we're comparing this is compare this
to the ideal ranking based on our labels.
What is keeping us from approaching the ideal?
And you'd be surprised more often than not, how much simple in the past, we
would have like maybe hired a team of labelers to fix or team of annotators.
How much simple work there can be to improving the M25 baseline without having
to like completely re-infinite your entire search system.
So one thing I'll mention, by the way, is I'm coming at this from, I know this is
a rag course, I'm coming at this from just some context setting.
I'm coming at this from the, from the complete opposite perspective.
I'm coming at this from, I have a search application that I want to make smarter
with, with generative AI, which is quite a different use case than the opposite,
which is I want to insert search into a chat application.
So I'm looking for ways of like improving these sort of short queries that you
might not see in like an LLM or a chat bot.
I'm doing more of the opposite where it's very much, I get these
short queries in my decars.
How can I look at my query history to find gaps so that I can make obvious
improvements and a lot of times in those systems, we have a mature existing
search system and doing something like adding, we probably have a mature
elastic search, solar, whatever open search, completely changing our search
infrastructure or even adding something is a fair amount of work and may not
necessarily be, they are may not be worth it.
And sometimes people are in different positions.
Sometimes people want to go for the like big hail Mary of adding a new system.
Other times people just want to, want to tune up and sort of like look for
tactical purpose or both.
Both are perfectly valid.
Yeah.
And if we get to a point where we feel like these queries, we're actually
making progress with these queries, we've solved a problem, maybe a bunch of them
are neutral, but we have a classic problem where a subset are approved maybe by
adding product descriptions with LLMs.
Then we can maybe now we work with 24 queries and we just keep scaling up and
scaling up, maybe we multiply by two each time.
And one reason for doing that is it's expensive to go through this LLM, right?
And we don't necessarily want to start doing this with 10,000 queries with
every document in our corpus.
We need to be going to our PMs.
We need to be going to our teams with promising approaches.
I would argue even before we're really like doing a lot of like explicit planning
of how we're going to build an AV test or even how we're going to build a large
full scale offline test with thousands of queries.
So it really is valuable to have kind of a, I would say like Kaggle-able or
Google collab-able.
Like if you can run it within the amount of RAM that a free collab instance gives
you, I feel like that's a good signal of like, of a healthy prototyping cycle.
Yeah.
So let's talk about fixing the problem.
This is just a snippet of NDCG code.
And, but I will say you can find notebooks.
There's also a appendix slide in this with the notebooks.
When I going through the stuff, when you actually look at the data and I say there
actual problems to solve.
One thing I noticed is that the title, we already saw this, the titles are wrong.
Well, we know the description, their descriptions still seem to be accurate.
So as a simple example, we could just say create a very short three to
four word title for product descriptions.
Prefix your response with title colon is just a, and we're only using descriptions.
And I give some examples from the data of good or bad titles just to give it some
good few shot example ranking.
And I'm not even using when I do this and you can go through the notebook, not
even using actually, I realized I got the email the other day and I wasn't paying
attention that GPT three dot five is going away.
So I got a right dough and change surf GPT four micro or whatever.
I'm not using fancy LLM.
I'm just using like GPT three to five.
And I feel like if I can't get a little bit of signal on the cheapest possible
LLM, it may not be worth forgetting that extra like 10% or whatever out of the
next LLM.
So just a simple prompt, simple examples, and then I can sort of get these.
So notice these fixed titles.
They start to get reasonably fixed titles and I can go through this and I can sort
of like iterate on this data by itself, iterate on the crowns, get a sense for,
am I generating titles that are reasonably reflective of my data?
What's nice about this is these titles now are all going to be consistent.
They're all going to be something that a, any similarity system could match within
the constraints of that similarity system.
We're not going to have to deal with these like inconsistent times.
And when I do that generally see, I see almost universally positive or neutral
results and you can see a TCG test went up to from, I think the baseline was part
three one.
Now let's like four, three cents.
And you can see this desk for kids obviously had that problem.
And so that just kind of points at it's sort of like standing in for a class of
query.
That's not, not actually working that hard or not actually working that well
because of inconsistent product titles.
There may be other things that would have similar problems.
We have this one minor degradation that it might be worth digging into to see
what happened there, but other ones sort of improved a little bit too.
So generally things are positive.
This might be a good point where you say like, okay, well let me scale up to like
another 10 or whatever crew to see if this pattern continues.
If there's other queries like desperate kids, let's just keep iterating on this.
I will.
The other thing I'll say is one thing I also looked at that also had a similar
result was not just searching.
I'm not actually showing the code I'm doing in collab to search.
I'm using a library I create called search array, which is a BM 25 search index
in pandas.
That's just useful for prototyping, but I actually searched the combination of
the actual title and the title that I generated.
So both actually provide pretty good same.
Hey, are your rag applications falling short, despite using the latest
frameworks and models, you're not alone.
I'm Jason Liu and I've helped a dozen companies improve their AI applications.
I've developed a systematic approach that delivers results.
If you want to check it out, join my free six week email course and learn the
techniques I use in my own consulting practice.
That way you can stop guessing at what works and measure what matters.
Just check out improving rag.com.
So what ends up happening is it used to be the case that we would have these
problems and we would hire a big team to clean label for Stata.
And obviously one of the big problems, LLMs is we could get a team or we could
get an LLM to do this work for you.
It used to be I would create instructions for a team and they were of labelers and
I'd hire the fab a dozen people going through my data and try to clean it up.
And the PM or some content domain person would be in charge of doing this.
Today.
Now I feel like that domain expertise is much more sort of writing a prompt to
people, of course, you're writing a prompt to an actual LLM.
And, and one thing that I don't have in here is there is a, the feedback
loop is really what's up.
So if I do this one on the left and I send it over to a team and I look at the
data, you know, weeks later, and it's not right, you may just give up on this
entire effort altogether.
I teach a lot of effort on the right.
I get the data back instantly and I could be like, Oh, these titles are weird.
They have nothing to do with how people search, blah, blah, blah.
And it's sort of like, it's tightening the feedback loop tremendously.
I didn't do this part.
If you want to go through my notebooks, I leave it as you.
If you want to create a prompt to fill in empty descriptions, and it's interesting
to think about what ways would be good to do this because some of these, what's
this assume for the sake of argument that the ones without descriptions have
good titles, how do we generate a good description?
Descriptions are actually more proposed than the title.
Would we need extra data?
Would we need something like an image to help us out here?
What ways would there be to fill in descriptions?
And that's, I leave that to you to think about.
That's really what GAR is about.
We have GAR coming in, cleaning and tagging content.
We have GAR interpreting queries, maybe GAR to post process search results.
And importantly, instead of a PM on domain X for our strongly in the loop in how
we're cleaning up data, we're looking at how the data is being, you know, working
with our search index and we'll try to use LLMs to find ways to interpret things,
improve things and that kind of thing.
But there's an, that's sort of like the obvious take, right?
Of course we can clean up data.
You guys are probably maybe in your RAG course, you've talked about things like
two tower models, or you maybe you've seen two tower models in the embedding system,
but there are a lot of lexical similarities that sort of reflect how
embeddings work that we used before as a sort of like lexical analog to embedding
system, but to motivate that a little bit, I want to mention there's this big
problem in search that I'm sure, which is the vocabulary mismatch rule.
So you have this like formal light fixture, and then you have this
like a least chandelier, like nothing on the left is matching or, and
that's a vocab mismatch.
And of course we could go and make a vector search system for that.
Totally, totally possible.
The other thing we could do is, and this is like the first thing that I hear
people think about all the time is to think about, I want you to take this
data, these queries, and maybe here are some light matches between queries and
products, I want you to generate synonyms.
And specifically I say like, you're an e-commerce products SEO, all that
a lot and just sort of like generate synonyms on these categories and try not
to generate synonyms beyond these.
And ideally might have something like traditional to elegant formal light
fixtures, a state chandelier, these kinds of things.
And I've talked to teams all the time about this and this just turns out not to
work that well, and I'll talk about why in a little bit, but it's, it's, we're
more or less blindly applying synonyms and it get pretty consistent results.
Interestingly, this query that we know has a big problem kind of works okay.
It improves a little bit, but we have a lot of degradations.
So it's pretty men, right?
And we look at the actual synonyms being generated, unless we put a lot of work
into this, which I'll talk about how do we might do that in a little bit, we see
things like some pretty dumb synonyms like upholstered bed, furniture is a
synonym for bed.
Well, I guess it's sort of is, but it's so broad.
Youngster for check for kids.
I mean, who searches for youngster?
This is kind of smart.
Actually.
It's like, Kari is actually modern and contemporary.
Like it knows what that product line is.
Two piece set or hair.
Like that's actually kind of interesting.
So there are like interesting things in here, but there are also kind of dumb
things and part of the problem is synonym is a pretty messy concept in language.
Like when we think about how it's hurt, how language is related, like synonym
just means related term.
It doesn't mean it's more specific.
It doesn't mean it's less specific.
It doesn't mean it's a broad category that includes this.
It doesn't mean that it's just an alternate label that shares 99% like USA
versus United States of America.
That's just what we would say is an alternate label.
Those are exactly the same thing, just spelled differently.
Right.
When you really talk about synonyms, you really have to be specific of what you
mean in a lexical context and how people use these, this terminology of search is,
is very different how people search.
They're not even aware that they think in terms of broad categories and then
narrowing it down and all that stuff.
And what random synonyms just tend to do is if you think about the query
document similarity space, we're sort of like taking each thing.
Some of these are queries, some of these are documents, and we're just sort of
like jiggling it and moving in some direction.
And then the missionality here is really high.
So if we like push something just a little bit in one direction, push it in
another direction, it's really going to mess up this sort of similarity that
we're hoping to create.
It's not actually born by like query document relationships.
What we really want to do is try to jiggle these a little bit closer so that
things that are relevant are staying together and things that are irrelevant
kind of move farther apart.
And if you've worked with a two tower embedding model, it's a very similar kind
of concept.
We have a set of attributes or features and we move some clips or some further
apart.
So sort of an unspoken hero to this day of search systems are actually taxonomies
and managed vocabularies.
And Google actually has a product taxonomy.
This is just a snippet of it that breaks down taxonomy nodes and to see, think
about as a folder structure, we have a top level category, a category into that
category under long.
And a big trick that has often people have often done for the longest time with
search to make a semantic search system is they'll map a query to a taxonomy node
and they'll do kind of a similar taxonomic similarity reiki as like almost
like the outer most ranking.
So the most similar thing that you would maybe expect if you're searching and you
use, if you, let's say you typed a query, this isn't the exact query you typed,
but you typed a query that maybe it was toddler, bed or something, and it mapped
to this or toddler bed accessories in a map to this node.
The first thing that you might expect in search results are basically types of bed
accessories and those are hyponyms.
Those are more specific concepts.
Those get narrower in the taxonomy.
The next thing you might expect is parents.
So more general things, slightly more general.
So baby and toddler furniture.
So we maybe don't have this stuff, but maybe we can show you some toddler
furniture, who knows, maybe it was slightly mislabeled, maybe it's relatively
close to what you want.
It's your head.
And then finally, we might show siblings.
So other things in these categories.
So siblings to this category.
And this sort of taxonomical ranking is really foundational thing that you
see in a lot of search systems.
And it's funny because it's one of those things that's not, it's been around for
a long time, there's not a ton of like, it's not exciting or sexy.
And so there's not a ton of content out there that talks about this, but it makes
a fantastic way of doing, of doing, building a kind of almost two tower
system of labeling queries and documents in a similarity space that is shared
between query and document in a way that when we, we can issue a search for this
and get back products in this, if we label our products with taxonomical labels,
get back things in this taxonomical similarity, right?
This is extremely powerful and it's has the advantage of being in this
interpretable lexical space where if there's a problem, someone can actually
go and manually change a taxonomical node or how something in the query
lookup database or whatever.
So I inspired by this, I created an LLM prompt, give you a product description,
give me the Google product taxonomy, it likely falls in and I gave it a subset
of taxonomy, this taxonomy and I gave it some examples.
So I actually listed a subset of taxonomy.
This is tricky.
This, the one thing I'll say to this is because the taxonomy is relatively large.
If you don't tell about the taxonomy, it is prone to hallucinating a taxonomy.
So you have to be pretty careful with that, but you can, there's enough
context to give it, at least I guess I would give GPT-3 enough of that
for richer taxonomy and I gave it a bunch of examples of like cases where
there's, you know, edge cases, different weird things, this might look like it's
this, but it's actually that kind of thing.
So really important stuff.
And as you encounter problems, of course you could tweak your examples.
And this is extremely powerful because one thing that is a good, I think, a
powerful attribute of lexical similarity systems is if you can iterate on both
of these towers independently in such a way that it makes the combination work
really well, so as a, as like that PM that's in the loop, so to speak, or a
data scientist with their PM hat on, you can see that there's problems.
You could tweak that label and you can say, oh, or you could find problems.
You can add examples that correct those.
You can find ways of approving these things and you can measure like how
good is my, given a hand labeled set, how good is my query to taxonomy label?
How good is my product to taxonomy label?
So these things are entirely possible with LLMs.
I think it would be cool even to think about could we fine tune LLMs that are
just focused on this kind of taxonomical label like sort of like much more
efficiently and that's also, and maybe even like finding ways of shrinking them
so that they could be done more efficiently just for this use case.
And as a hack, this is just a long-term search hack is using, you can use
BM25 for taxonomical similarity.
And really what happens is if you issue a search that is this as a query.
So let's say we have our query maps to this, this as a query, it's basically
furniture or slightly it's child or the next child, this actually plays really
well with the 25 scores if products are labeled the same way, because if you
think about it, this is the most common thing, this is the lowest value in the
BM25 scoring function, because it's a low idea for hop a technique frequency.
And as you get more specific, it will value those more specific matches even more.
There's other factors too, like if you're an exact match, you have 25
tends to prefer those because you're matching a hundred percent of the terms.
If there are additional children and stuff, it might, it's like siblings and
whatnot, it's not going to prefer those as much.
And I went to a talk that's probably 10 years old that talked about using
taxonomical similarity probably in Solver back in the day.
But these, these techniques are nothing ever dies in search.
A lot of these things are time immemorial techniques that work really well.
And we do this, we also get a nice bounded similarity, get a slight
drop due to some kind of misc here.
The other thing that's interesting is when we had this query here might
actually map to more than one, there's like outdoor furniture and there's
rocking chairs and that actually points to, if you think about this, you could,
of course, a couple of the ways we do this, we've started mapping things to
more than one taxonomical node, totally doable, but it also points at the fact
that, you know, sometimes it's, if you have a library and finding things in a
library using the Dewey decimal system is extremely powerful when you have an
LLM library and that's categorizing things, but often the real world is
messier than that.
So this isn't replacing something like vector search where this kind of thing
crosses across different categories.
So something like vector search is still possible, but there's also like a ton
of ground to be gained just from doing more traditional semantic search kinds
of things with LLMs.
If we add the clean titles, we'd get even more of a boost.
It's a little, it's a little additive on top of both, maybe, or maybe not
stats-a, we'd probably have to start adding more queries.
But the main takeaway is two tower kinds of approaches where we think about this
query, query similarity, product-to-product similarity, and then also how they
relate to each other can be extremely powerful and a lexical approach too.
We can have LLMs in the loop helping us.
And there are so many ways, like I talked to taxonomy as one of them, but you can
imagine, and there are many other ways of doing thinking about different kinds of
similarity that we might want to add that are a bit more maybe explicit lexical
kinds of things like numerical attributes, like how close something is to the size
the user requested, attributes about the user's explicit preferences versus the
categorization of the content, different kinds of, you know, obviously taxonomic
classifications beyond item type, color, et cetera.
Like one of the things I did many, many, many, many years ago with a fashion
search was literally just going before LLMs or then brawling the web for how
people talk about colors and like building my own taxonomy, that was extremely
powerful.
You can do things like how people are correcting searches and find there's a
similarity there, how people like refine their searches historically.
All of these things can be really powerful things that I can have LLMs in the loop
to increase the, how well a search system works in practice.
So that's my brain down.
Just talk about some conclusions.
I sort of went at this before.
There's not a replacement for vector search.
I think one of the most important things about search is that every, any, if you
think about it in terms of machine learning, the most valuable machine
learning features are orthogonal, like independent, more independent of other,
of the existing features.
And to do something like that, like things that are going to be more independent or
orthogonal are probably going to come from a completely different paradigm of
thinking.
So if you're coming into AI and you get into vector search, well, things that are
lexical, like did the title directly match this term or is there a taxonomy
similarity is, is a more novel feature than a, maybe a different kind of a
bedding representation and vice versa.
Like, so if you're coming at this for me, I have an existing lexical system.
Obviously vector search is going to provide things that cut across lexical
categories in ways that are unique and powerful.
I've also had situations where I've built an embedding using, there's like sparse
embeddings using taxonomies themselves, or these kinds of using sort of like
higher level categories, flat categories to build embeddings.
And so these things aren't necessarily mutually exclusive.
Like you can have embeddings built from sparse categories and these things more
and more, they're sort of like the hate dialectic of two opposing things that
come together.
Another thing, this happens all the time.
People start these massive initiatives that are going to take years, but they
don't, they don't have the muscle to look at 10 queries and figure out
debug, what's wrong with them.
Like that's huge.
IR research is not your data set.
Like it's often, if you go to your BEIR, which is the, you know, looking for new
ways of tech similarity across many, many data sets, in some ways what's there.
Yeah, it's like a good foundation, but you really care about things for like
in-domain fixes for your domain, not cross-domain foundational things.
That's more of the realm of research and academia.
If you're a practitioner, you're mostly like, what is going to help me with this
data set tomorrow so I could ship an A-B test to show results to my boss.
Yeah, like many teams just don't have that prototype muscle.
And I really think like starting with those small sets of queries, playing with
data, finding the gaps is more important than starting a big initiative.
Like let's use LLMs to generate synonyms for queries against our flexible system.
Really want to ground what improvements you're making in the data because the
similarity space of changes you can make to queries and documents is so massive
that if you just pick something that sounds like it's really cool, more likely
than not, it's just by the probability of how similarities work and all
dimensions you can walk, you probably will walk things in the wrong dimensions.
So really have, I really believe in grounding things of the data
that you actually see.
Yeah, LLMs augment old school search hacks and keep PMs in the loop, which
sort of like old school traditional search management.
This is the slide my son made that I have, I'm obligated to put in every,
everything to do.
It has something to do with search for Amelia Earhart and you can throw
fruit at me, rotten fruit at me.
Thanks for watching.
If you liked that video, make sure to like and subscribe.
And if you want to learn more, check out improvingrag.com.
We're going to talk about the foundations and not frameworks.
Over six emails, you're going to learn how to overcome absence blindness, as
well as how to fine tune language models, understanding diverse query types,
improving multimodal rag, and ultimately smart question routing and build up
UX that collects user feedback.
Just check out improvingrag.com and fill out this quick email address at the bottom.
Thanks.
