So how do you do RAG on multimodal data? In today's episode of Systematically Improving RAG
Applications, Nina from Unstructured is going to talk about the implementation details of
multimodal RAG systems for unstructured data. We're going to focus on a specific use case
in educational technology. We're going to cover the challenges of incorporating various data
sources and types beyond pure text and provide insights into more practical solutions.
We currently support 24 different file types and we have more in flight. You just drop in a PDF
and then they generate a slideshow with images or tables. I actually wish I had something like
this when I was moving my slide. I'd like to explain to you guys when you're improving that.
I'm going to be talking about multimodal RAG on unstructured data, focusing on a key study in
EdTech, a company named Arena. And I'm a staff developer relations at Unstructured. I've worked
previously at several other startups in NLP and NLU and before that in Venture Capital in a machine
learning and transcript file. Today I'm going to go over challenges in adding data types and
forceless beyond pure text. The data distributions that we see in practicing some considerations
will be about eliminating RAG beyond pure text and then I'll spend most of the time on the case
bedding, Elena getting into the recipe of how you extract images and tables and other non-text
elements using Unstructured. I can talk a little bit about the challenges in adding both data types
and forceless. I'll start with data types. So we currently support 24 different file types and we
have more in flight. That includes a lot of different plain text file types, a lot of different
images, data types, the empty screenshot, and then a lot of different document types, Tdx, PowerPoint.
And one of the challenges are that when you need a data loader for each file type as well as their
metadata, it depends on how you want to handle your metadata. I've heard of some folks just taking it
from the document itself, but we also have other metadata that we gather from within the document
that varies by document type. Then you'll have some challenges in standardizing that output
between these different formats like what's a page in some kind of document that has notations,
what are you going to display or chunk within a pediac or a powerpoint, which are all pretty
different documents. You'll have to think about how they are a genius, pre-processing type arm
and model training. So if you have predominantly one type of file, but you want to include other
one, you'll have to worry about operating for that predominant model and then also potentially
keeping different models all up to date. And then you'll have to think about encoding and alignment
for the images and tables and other non-text elements in there. And then of course, if you
have a system that you've already built for text, you will have to think about increases in latency
when you're cutting images and how you want to manage those. So these are just some of the
considerations that we've come across. One big challenge is the heterogeneity of document
layouts. Really there's infinite ways that we could arrange titles and content on various documents.
And so making sure that you're trained well for that, take your model well. And in addition to
that, there's also the challenge of reading order, whether they're going across and then down or down
and then across for some of these different document layouts that I mentioned. And then there
are specifically our challenges for adding images. So there's an example of a pipeline we use for
processing a PDF in our platform, which is currently in beta. We have our high-res model,
extract this one because we have images and text and tables in here. Otherwise we have a fast
pipeline if the PDF for example only had text for a few. You don't want to use a more powerful model
than you need to to keep computational costs down. And so then this is separated into this
text section, this photo, and then this table. And so we have different processing pipelines.
We have OCR for the text. In the platform we have a multinodal LLM to generate a summary of this
image, which will also be outputted into text. In addition in our metadata, we will have the
base64 encoding of the image as well. And then the table, we have a separate table processing
model for. So then image will have the table and we have that in text and HTML format in the
metadata. Specifically for adding images, you have to think about different models, different
approaches, and all the different things that you want to capture about that image. And then in
addition, if you want to support a lot of different sources, there are also different challenges there.
So I could teach you that a bit as well. We have 28 that we support anything from extra DB to GitHub
to Notion. There's a lot of different places where you might have all different kinds of files.
You can include images that are other attachments and things. And challenges in adding sources as
well are for the extraction. So you'll have the acts of configuration for each one. We want to
make sure that this indication is secure. And then you have to think a lot about handling the API.
Today you've got to manage that one in addition to yours. So the errors, the timeout, we often
have to build in delays so that we don't hit API overuse errors. And then also mapping that
metadata. And so you really want to make sure that you have the data governance and you're compliant
with any security concerns around that data and those transmission. So when you put it all together,
when you start thinking about having a bulky model with a lot of different sources and a lot of
different file height, there's a lot of different steps to the process. So I'm really focusing on
the left side of this image. You have to think about keeping connectors up to date, adapting
pipelines to novel data types as you may want to add those. Managing comps and uptimes for any
third party dependencies that you're using for more complex data or functions. The reading order.
And then you'll have to consider if you're a corporate re-embedding sources and data types
as well. So then that really gets into orchestration beyond just the simple data loaders. I've talked
about a lot of different data types and sources, and I guess Dan thought it would be interesting
for the class to know what we actually see in practice. And in practice, it's a lot of PDFs.
People are processing PDF in our system more than most other file types. So it seems like there's
really a lot of enterprise data stored in these PDFs and they are more challenging to process
than they have requirements for OCR and imaging table extraction in all different layouts. And
then we'll talk about some considerations for evaluation before diving into the case study.
So you'll want to think about interpreting and integrating this non-textual data. Like how do
you want it to go up? Is it when you're talking about something where there's a relevant image
or table, that's when you want it to be pulled kind of seamlessly? In your evaluation, you'll
have to think about defining information across data types. So across the type of images. I'll
do a little sidebar here. By training in this morning, came through my neuroscience training,
and there I remember learning one day that you could have an academic publication that you're
reading and the finding is like, this part of the brain is more active during this activity.
And then you go look at the figures and they show the exact opposite. And this is not an uncommon
occurrence, and I'm sure it occurs in other types of documents, but you have to look at how that
information is synthesized because really the text and the images, they could be saying totally
opposite things, but they're pretty challenging level of evaluation. And then you'll also want
to keep in mind the latency of your system once you've added multimodal elements as well,
because that could change the user experience from a text-based RAG system. So you might need
new metrics or human evaluation to cover just some of these different elements you might run into.
And now we're going to dive into our case study with Elena. So Elena is an EdTech company. They
have an AI slides and lesson generator. And so you just drop in a PDF and then they generate a
slideshow with images or tables. I wrote a blog post on messages linked below, but on the right
here is an example of some of the slides that you might get as you drop in a PDF or encoder.
You can see here that they have equations and images next to the relevant text, and they do
this pretty much instantaneously. So it's really cool. I actually had something like this when I
was making my slide. I didn't know anyone has journal clubs. You could just pop in an archive
paper and get slides using this tool. And I'll show their little, hopefully this comes across,
I'll show their TikTok demo. Well, you click add attachment up with your textbook and then the
images all show up there. It's really quick. Actually, I saw them do a live demo when we were
reporting, but we were talking about the case study together. And yeah, it would be, I think,
challenging for me to do a live demo of their product, but it's really impressive how quickly
it went. Hey, are your rag applications falling short despite using the latest frameworks and
models? You're not alone. I'm Jason Liu and I've helped a dozen companies improve their AI
applications. I've developed a systematic approach that delivers results. If you want to check out
join my free six week email course and learn the techniques I use in my own consulting practice.
That way you can stop guessing at what works and measure what matters. Just check out improvingrag.com
For Dan, the multimodal impact was that things visual images are really essential for teachers
and they increase information retention up to 60%. Fabier, the co-founder of Elaina that we spoke to
for the case study, he was blown away by the ability to extract or jitter and table to add
these visual roles. And then for him, the organizational impact of using our API for this
rather than building it himself or that they could focus on scaling what they were building
rather than having to worry about scaling up and down with the serverless API. So now I'm going to
go into the recipe of how they did this. So firstly, use our API to partition the PDFs and other
documents into their constituent elements. And then they extracted this data, including diagrams
and tables, which they then processed by an LLM chain they have developed that's proprietary.
And then the extracted data was summarized and stored in a vector database, making it accessible
for generating new presentations. Their code is closed source, so I'm just pointing books to
the different steps of code that make this possible. I'll go into a little bit more of how
we operate that makes that possible before jumping into the code. So one, we're animating
by element. So we are classifying different parts of the image. So it's kind of like all just being
raw, OCR'd out like on the left. We are showing where there's, we're categorizing whether the
title, subheading, page number, footnote, images table, and all these different elements. And we're
also grabbing a ton of metadata. It really seems like everyone has needs for different kinds of
metadata. Some people really like having page number there. Some people like having the layout
there, the coordinates where that appears. And then some people really like the basics with
forward coding of tables and images for bacon friend code, which referred to that text specifically.
So for example, for Elena, they could have a text section that is next to an image and then make sure
to fold that image based on the metadata. So this combination ends up being really powerful
for multimodal RAP. So now we're going to go into documentation. So for the first step in our recipe,
the partitioning. So for our API, that everyone should have a trial core. Everyone, I guess everyone
get two weeks, but for this course, we have added extra time. We know the course is pretty long,
we might need time after to try various tools. And then in the quick start, you would just
hit install, unstructured ingest, get your API key. And we recommend using the ingest library. So
it's just a whole pipeline here where you set up and turn it just all local to local, which is
the list and you can add partition argument like having the PDFs, but concurrent to be faster,
or things like that other elements of the configuration. And by default, we'll always
have the image elements captured. And then to extract image block types, we have just a little
bit of code you would use after running the processing in our documentation here. So you're
going to load that JSON file that you created in a previous partitioning step. And then if an element
in the metadata, the space 64 and code representation, then you just decode that image
data. And then you could just open and show that image. So just a very few quick steps that you
could then tie into other parts of the pipeline that are, for example, maybe towering you wedded
to call this image. And similarly for tables, we also have just like a very short snippet where if
you have that table in this text as HTML format, you with this example right here, you can just
save that HTML to a local file and then just open in a browser dot table displayed, basically
displayed exactly as it would have been in the image, except that you could also now interact
with the different values and different columns. And then their last step was to put everything in
a vector database so that they could make presentations from there. And so here I'll just
quickly point to the different destination connectors that we have. So Astra, Deep, I think
Ansher's another one, Databricks, MongoDB, FindCore, WeaveE, and GrowthDor. I actually don't even know
all of the destination connectors yet, but there's a combination of kind of vector databases and
other places where you can put the event and work from there. That's my little intro to
LofiModel RAG. Feel free to follow me on LinkedIn or Twitter for a new output.
Thanks for watching. If you liked that video, make sure to like and subscribe. And if you want to
learn more, check out ImprovingRAG.com. We're going to talk about the foundations and not frameworks.
Over six emails, you're going to learn how to overcome absence blindness, as well as how to
fine tune language models, understanding diverse query types, improving multimodal RAG, and
ultimately smart question routing and build a UX that collects user feedback. Just check out
ImprovingRAG.com and fill out this quick email address at the bottom. Thanks.
