Hey, everyone, I'm Shaw and this is the Data Entrepreneurs Podcast.
I'm super excited today because Jason is here.
And if you don't know who Jason is, he is a rag guru, rag expert, AI
consultant, and AI educator.
And he's someone I've actually learned a ton from through his amazing blog posts
and slightly cheeky posts on X.
So yeah, thanks for coming on, Jason.
Pleasure to be here.
I guess for a bit of like background and context, maybe you can give people
a flavor of how you got into AI.
Cause I'm sure people, if they've come across your content on X or read it when
your blog posts, they're like, man, this guy knows a lot about rag, but like, I'm
curious about like the journey to get to this point.
Yeah.
If you want to go all the way back, my actual background started in
mathematical physics and basically at that time, you know, I think physics
research was taking a very long time.
You know, every project you worked on would be like a multi-decade project.
And in my mind, I sort of lost patience in my early twenties.
And I decided to pursue something that was a little bit more fast paced.
And that's where machine learning really came up.
I don't know if you've seen like Andrew Ains machine learning course on Coursera
back in like 2014, that's kind of how everything started.
Then since then I've been mostly doing things like computational social networks,
computer vision, and eventually I did computer vision and recommendation
systems at Stitch.
I think many people who know me know about the hand injury that I had got out there.
Once that happened, I was unable to code.
You can't code with your hands.
You can learn to talk and now I'm here and sort of, uh, you know, become a little
bit of a personality, but also an advisor and consultant to a lot of early stage
startups.
Yeah, that's awesome.
And like seeing some of the companies that you've worked with on your website,
it's like pretty impressive.
Yeah, that's awesome.
I like that you're a fellow physicist.
I feel like a lot of physicists made that transition to machine learning and AI.
Well, today we're going to talk about RAG.
So the title is building production grade RAG systems.
And I guess like the whole story these days is that it's never been easier to
spin up a quick prototype in a Jupiter notebook or something like that using
Lang chain or llama index.
So like one of these libraries or something like that, then you feel like show
your team like, Hey, look, look how amazing this RAG system is.
But I guess like building real world systems is a much different process.
So I guess before we kind of get into that, maybe we can just like level set and
answer the basic question of, you know, what is RAG and why should we care about
it?
With traditional LLMs, the general idea is that it's trained with all of the
world's knowledge already baked inside.
But these LLMs may not have seen your own personal data.
Like you could not ask it a question about my journal or you cannot ask it a
question about a movie script that has not been published.
And so what RAG allows you to do is it allows you to add more information into
the context and then ask a language model to read that information to answer your
question.
And then the question is what information do you put in?
How much do you put in?
Right.
Does it scale infinitely?
No.
Okay.
If I put the rest of the internet on, on this context, could I actually answer the
question better?
Or could there be so much information that it actually confuses the language
model?
A lot of these questions are being used or trying to be answered using, using AI.
And common examples would might be things like financial due diligence,
financial analysis.
When these documents really come out today, I want to be able to do analysis
and answer questions that same day.
Yeah.
So the basic idea is LLMs work better with context, but what context you give it
is non-trivial and how you do that is non-trivial.
What does it take to build one of these systems?
Because I guess if, you know, people are used to using like chat with you or
something like that, you're uploading documents manually.
So you're kind of making that decision of what context to make on a use case by
use case basis.
But like, how do we build a system that kind of does this automatically?
And then what are like the key components of it?
The big mistake folks are making is they think that if they just index everything
that it'll just work.
Right.
But what we tend to find is while it is really easy to make these demos where you
can give it a couple of blog posts and it'll answer a question from blog post
seven, there's two real issues.
The first one is it's not guaranteed that just doing retrieval can help you
answer the questions that matter.
So for example, maybe I want to do a rag app over my journal.
It's actually still very hard to answer the question.
How have my ideas changed over the past years?
Because they won't be able to realize that, okay, I need to find, you know,
summaries per month and then compare summaries over time, capabilities that
just can't exist.
The other thing too is maybe, you know, I write about you in my journal and then I
ask the question of like, you know, what is Shaw thinking about?
That won't work either because it turns out maybe because I've retrieved your
name, now it's writing about what I think of you from the perspective of what you
might think about me or something like that.
And now you really, okay, even the inventory is insufficient to do these
search queries.
And so what ends up happening is there's really sort of two issues.
Do we have the ability to compute the answer?
And do we have the inventory to actually compute the answer?
Those really aren't questions that I think people are thinking about when they
make this demo, because they're going to make the Paul Graham essay rag and only
ask questions about Paul Graham.
But that's not really how things work in production, right?
People use AI apps in very crazy ways.
So you said two things there.
You said the capabilities of the model matter and then the inventory and then
inventory here is just like the knowledge base or the data or the contacts that
can feed into the system.
How do you start to like separate these two and like understand if it's a
capability issue or an inventory issue?
Yeah.
If you think of a knowledge base, you know, the easiest way I might think about
it is inventory is the number of rows and capability of the type of column we
have.
Well, a simple example could be, okay, if we divorced this from rag and just
think about like AI apps in general, or even just any application, the example I
like to use is DoorDash.
If it turns out that every time I search Greek restaurants, my click through rates
are low, it might not be because my search is bad.
Maybe I just don't have Greek restaurants on DoorDash.
And then the actual solution turns out is just like buying iPads for restaurants
in their neighborhood.
Whereas the capability of the issue might be click through rates after 7
PM are really bad because we don't have correct availability dates, availability
times, and then really the problem is actually building out the like open now
button.
Those are all like systems issues that we can address outside the system rather
than just like making our recommendation system better.
Okay.
And then in the day, it's still just going to be Greek restaurants.
And then you throw a list of items.
There's no different than like showing a list of text chunks.
And I feel like we're starting to get into the pitfalls and issues and challenges
that people face when they come to actually implementing these things.
And you have a really nice essay.
It's like a list of 17 different ways to build a terrible rag system.
And I think it's, you know, of course, using this inverted thinking of Charlie
Munger and maybe going even further back to Jacoby, the mathematician, and always
trying to invert things.
So I want to kind of walk through all of these like common pitfalls.
There's a lot of them.
So hopefully we get through all of them, or at least most of them.
And so hopefully this can get people thinking about, or at least tuning in to
some of these common issues that I guess it's easy to forget about.
The first one you have here is, you know, a great way to build a terrible rag
system is to ignore latency.
So what does this mean in this context and how do we improve latency?
Yeah.
So there's really two things.
There's one, the latency of the actual system, right?
Which is probably going to be from when I hit enter to when the first token or
the last token shows up, but there's also a lot of perceived latency.
For example, for chat GPT and also Claude, or almost every language model these
days, they stream out the tokens.
Yeah.
Even if I'm going to output, you know, 10,000 tokens of answers, I at least start
seeing results and seeing answers really early in the process.
This is also the same case with doing retrieval, just by having different
loading screens and different interstitials, you can reduce the perceived latency.
Yeah.
This is going to be very important because in e-commerce settings, for example,
we, we saw that even a hundred, 300 milliseconds of latency could be 1%
revenue, I have no data to show that this isn't going to be the case for
rag application in the future.
We're always going to be complaining that things are going to be too slow,
but at least we can communicate how we're getting those results.
And I feel like this is a really important point that, especially people
who are more engineering of an engineering mindset, it might be easy to
underweight this or even ignore it completely, which is that a lot of times
you don't need to, you know, optimize your model by making it smaller or
trying to do some kind of like optimizations in the workflow to reduce
latency by like five or 10%.
Sometimes if you just do these simple things on the user experience side, you
can significantly improve the system with a relatively quick solution.
Yeah.
Like so much of it could just be like loading skeletons and whatnot.
I think a friend of mine recently told me that the Airbnb best AP test was just
making a new tab when you click the listing rather than like navigating that page.
That was the single most, like the single highest like revenue generation.
They saw it in like a couple of years.
Yeah, interesting.
Well, I feel like this point that you're talking about with perceived latency
segues nicely to the next point, which is to not show intermediate results.
If your goal is to make it a painful user experience.
So I guess this is more specific to a rag system.
So I guess maybe some like insights and tips around doing this for rags specifically.
Yeah.
You know, on TurboTax when you like fill out your forms and you press that
like generate button, it says these like really goofy, like one-liners, right?
It's like double checking, triple checking, you know, verify.
And that does something to how you perceive latency.
This is the same thing for tools that require a search.
You know, if it just showed you, if it just shows you what was the actual search
query that was being generated for you, told you when the results were done and
when you start re-ranking, right?
Maybe it can visualize the documents it found before it starts generating the
answer, again, all of those things will lead to better perceived latency.
Right?
This is the same reason why Facebook has like invented like the loading skeleton,
I believe, where there's like a gray, red, see something.
It just lets you look at something and not be so upset with the performance.
I feel like all of the big websites do that now.
Like YouTube, I always notice it when I pull it up on my phone, it has like that,
that gray out skeleton, and I guess applying that same idea to rag is interesting.
I feel like this kind of touches on the next point, which is like displaying
the source documents as you go.
So you don't even necessarily like have to put like titles or kind of information.
You could even just like show like icons of like documents being retrieved and
just like showing that.
Exactly.
But I don't know, do you, if we wanted to add some more like information, like is
it valuable to put like retrieved this document, retrieve this document or
something like that?
Like does that make sense?
So it's important for two reasons.
And maybe it's so just keep going to the next point.
Yeah.
First one is being able to visualize the citations allows the user to review them.
Right.
And the results are good.
You get that feedback.
If the results are bad, you might be able to allow them to delete something
and then regenerate an answer.
The second thing is oftentimes I've seen a lot of applications that want to build
rag applications for the first time.
Sorry, companies that want to build rag applications for the first time.
Right.
And what they find is really, they just want good documents search, right?
And then the people who use it won't even look at the answer.
They'll just click the PDF that they really cared about and go to the right page.
But even if it was a 20 page PDF, and because you answer the question with
page seven of the PDF, if you just click the PDF icon and opens a page seven,
you've actually done so much valuable work.
Yeah.
Interesting.
So this is a subtle point that it's a little bit of a tangent, but I feel like
there's a difference in building a search system optimized for humans and one
that's optimized for like LLM retrieval.
I don't know.
Is this something you think about a lot or like, what do you see as like the
key differences between these two?
I think for the most part, I like to build systems where most of the usage we
capture gets us trending data to make them all better.
And so by showing you a citations and giving you the ability to X something
out, you're telling me, Oh, this source was bad.
If one document is being used very often in many, many search results, I might
sort of maybe give it a gold star and make sure that, okay, whenever this
document is visible, letting the language model know that we, this is a
document we trust a lot.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Things just become feedback from a future model.
You're thinking about data generation and user feedback, like from the
initial stages of development.
Yeah.
Because I think for folks who've been building machine learning models for
maybe like four or five years plus, we had to earn the first model.
Now we have an LLM that gets us a model for free.
Yeah.
We forget to keep track of feedback data and now we can never get a
second version of the model.
Everyone's just sort of like crossing their fingers and then changing a sentence
or two and hoping, you know, finding the problems better.
But really I want to think about how can I collect better food size samples?
Yeah.
How can I summarize the bad results that create instructions that are higher
quality?
How can I take this feedback and put it in my email set?
Historically, you had to do that first, then train on the model.
Right.
And so I think many people have lost that ability.
I feel like it's like a new set of skills.
Cause like now you got to think about, you know, maybe some of the more advanced
ML folks were doing this like AP tests and kind of building these data collection
pipelines into the production system.
But I feel like most of the time it was just, okay, let's get the
draining data together.
Let's make sure it's like, you know, it's high quality.
It's has the right information.
We did feature engineering in a good way and then we train our model.
So like so much time is spent on that, that even people who have been building
systems for a while may not be like super experienced in some of these, these
other things.
So it's almost like now you have to do that because, you know, otherwise you
don't have any work to do.
Yeah.
And I think a lot of it has also just been the fact that there's been a lot more
software engineering teams that have been forced to learn how to deal with
these probabilistic systems.
And so they haven't really had the same sort of muscle around experimentation
or around hypothesis driven, like testing, even like grid search.
I think a lot of companies that work with just want permission to do something
very expensive, like grid search.
So like Jason, like, I feel like I just have to train like 16 different models
and then figure out which one's best.
Does this even make sense?
Is this a waste of money?
And say, Oh, this is how you do science.
You would never build an app with both Postgres and MySQL and load test your
application to figure out which one's better.
Someone probably has an answer and the answer is correct.
But then they come to me and say, Oh, which model is better?
And it turns out you can't do that.
You actually have to just do both.
Interesting.
I feel like that's a very natural thing for people coming from like a science
background, but I can imagine now putting myself in the shoes of a software
engineer, like this is completely a different way of thinking.
Yeah.
You know, like I'm like the software engineer.
I'm like a scientist first, a software engineer second.
And so I write code, I see failures, and then I add unit tests.
Well, I think if you think of a computer science class, they kind of want you to
write all the unit tests first.
Ah, interesting.
And then write the code.
Okay.
Really it's, it's a dance between the two, especially when you're more experimental.
It's very much an iterative process to get everything figured out.
The next thing to do if you want to build a bad rag system is to ignore churn.
So maybe just defining like what churn means in this context, and then how do
you decide what's an important feature to improve to kind of reduce churn?
Here, a lot of it has just been really understanding the demographics of your
users, if they use this app, how often are you, they actually using it.
Can we figure out for this segment of users that are, you know, churning off
the platform, what kind of questions are they asking?
Yeah.
Are these just questions that we can't possibly answer?
Sometimes the people who complain about the tool that you're building are all
the executives because they can't answer some insane question around like roadmap
planning, but most of the users who are analysts are really happy with answering
questions about searching one or two documents at a time and just understanding
people's usage behavior can probably help us understand what kind of queries and
what kind of things we need to do better on.
So you're doing some kind of like personalization on the user level.
So is it, are you keeping track of users or is this instead happening at the query
level where you're basically like inferring the customer segment from the
type of query that they type in?
A bit of both.
I wouldn't say it's one or the other.
It's just the fact that when you're doing the segmentation, looking at customers
that are unhappy is probably very, very valuable.
Now it's like, if I look at people who only use the app three or four times,
isn't it the case that those three or four times have been answers we could do
well or not do well, and if you can't, do we care?
You know, it's, it's the example where executives will try our product.
They'll ask a question that could never possibly have been answered.
And then you lose the sale.
How much of that is like expectation setting and education and not
actually having a bad app, bad app.
Interesting.
Because the contractors would be using it in a very different way.
So this kind of comes back to that first point with the perceived latency, where
it wasn't an engineering problem, it was more of like a user experience problem.
And now here, the expectations of what the system can do weren't properly set.
So this is more of like an onboarding problem than an engineering problem.
And I think my perspective is that many of the problems in AI are all mostly
onboarding and education and UX and not the AI.
And maybe it's for both the customers and maybe some of the developers as well.
Just having a sober understanding of what these systems can actually do.
I see how like, why you listed everything like this, because everything just kind
of flows naturally to the next one.
So the next one was to use a single and generic search index.
So I guess the implication here is that you should have different indexes for
different types of customers and different types of query.
So I'm curious, like, how do you like approach, like creating these different
indexes, like deciding how to make these splits?
I don't think you come up with these like a priority, right?
I think, you know, Google, probably what happened was you first index all web
pages. And then people, you know, before a lot of navigation came up, there was
probably a blog post called like how to drive from Boston to New York.
And it was a list of instructions.
And then you probably at some point realized, holy cow, like so many people are
just Googling driving instructions.
Let's just build out like a maps product or maybe like, oh wow, like 15% of all
our search queries are for images.
And the only place that they can find them is a blog post that like has an image.
Interesting.
Let's go build out photos.
And then at some point, maybe you go, oh, wow, people are searching shopping
experiences and we're taking them to other people's websites.
And maybe we should try to capture that ourselves.
And then we have a shopping page and then we have a videos page.
And maybe for videos, you go, we may as well just buy YouTube versus build our
own videos product.
And so much of it, I think, could have been done through just looking at user
queries. And so my general idea is if you can do data analysis on your user
queries, it will basically tell you what you need to build next.
Interesting.
A lot of crews have things like what's the latest news or what's the newest
thing or what's the recent whatever.
OK, basically this is telling me I need some kind of daytime filtering and maybe
I can use a language to find those daytime.
Right. But if it's about photos or about like construction projects or
transcripts, you might build a different search engine, one that might be across
many meetings, many speakers.
But these are not very specific tools rather than just having a single text
chunk of a transcript from any arbitrary.
That's interesting, because I feel like it's very natural to think about things
like this. And I feel the Google search example you gave was very clear.
So if you're searching like coffee shops close to me or something like that, it's
not going to just return web pages.
It's going to return like a web UI kind of optimized for directions to close by
coffee shops or something like that.
But like, what does this look like with these more chat interface type systems
like chat, GPT or people trying to build similar kinds of systems?
You know, how can we take that same idea and apply to this like slightly different
user experience?
Yeah. So you might want to do two things.
You might want to say cluster on the first query to figure out what the initial
intent is.
OK. Right. You can imagine if I just did a clustering model on all the queries,
near me might be a cluster.
Right. And I might look at this cluster and go, huh, how do we do anything with
near me? We don't have the capability of looking up the user's location.
Right. Near me is a capability.
OK. How do I do that?
It's not going to be better AI.
I'm probably going to be just like spending three weeks figuring out how to do like
a access location permissions for something.
And then maybe it's also, you know, you do some like IP lookup, you do something
else, you eventually infer what near me means.
But none of that is going to be an AI problem, really.
Yeah. Or a search problem.
And so what we do is just a lot of text clustering and summarization.
We might have a conversation.
We might ask a language model to summarize that conversation in a very deterministic
way, embed that, run some clustering model and just start looking at clusters.
And it's very rare that you don't really see anything.
It's not the case that every single period is unique.
You find very strange behaviors very quickly and then you can decide whether it's
important because you'll know cluster numbers.
Cluster ID seven is about near me and 15 percent of queries have some notion of near
me. Now the question is, is 15 percent a lot or a little?
Right. And you can just decide.
You can just talk to someone like, do we care about 15 percent of usage?
So I feel like this is kind of bringing up a theme from earlier, which is basically
data driven development.
You kind of build an initial version of the system.
You collect data about usage and then you use that information.
You use that data to drive what features you build next and the improvements that
you make to the system. Exactly.
OK. I feel like we touched on the next one, which is there's no need to develop
custom UIs.
So maybe here, like what are some common examples that you've seen across the
different projects you've been involved in, like the custom UIs that made a
noticeable difference or like a significant impact on the user experience?
The recent one that I really liked actually is from Chatchi BT itself.
Right. It now can render maps.
Oh, I didn't know that. Interesting.
Yeah. So I've been using search GPT to basically render maps.
And now what I'll say is given everything that you know about me through your
memories feature, I'm going to go into Japan, find me the hotels that you think I
would like. And immediately it would list out like five hotels and place pin on all
on the map. I can just look at the pins and go, OK, like those two are a little bit
too far. But these three basically are what I want.
Very quickly, I can click something within the same UI, look at those three hotels
and go, oh, this is something that's reasonable.
I would actually do this. I'm curious about the memories feature because
I guess I don't have a good understanding of that.
Is that like the model is slowly collecting data and putting it into some kind of like
knowledge base or something like that?
Yeah. So it has the ability.
I think just like every Chatchi BT instance now has like a save to memory
function call that it can call.
And it just like takes a sentence and writes it somewhere.
And I think all those lines, I don't think they're doing retrieval.
I think you're better off just shoving everything into the context.
OK, that makes sense.
But yeah, there's something there where
it's been really interesting to sort of see what it remembers about me.
Yeah, because I only go to Chatchi for work and not personal writing.
So it only knows that I'm a consultant.
Yeah, OK, nice. So it's kind of optimized for that type of work.
Now we're kind of like stepping to a different direction in improvements.
So I feel like this is like a perspective that I heard a lot over the last year,
which is we should train an LLM from scratch.
I guess the first question I had here is like, have you seen anyone actually do
this successfully?
No, only because when someone offers to pay me to do it, I usually just give the money back.
I just think that so much leverage can be made through the fine tuning APIs.
Yeah, from long context and prompt caching
and really just figuring out what is the problem you care about first and what is
the data set that matters before going to before training from scratch.
For very small tasks, I think fine tuning is great.
And more and more, I think, you know,
companies like Zenbase or whatnot can really just use few shotting and fine
tuning very small models and get a lot of performance out of them only with like
a couple hundred or even a thousand examples.
Like with 20 examples, you can do few shotting with 100 examples.
You can probably do some kind of dynamic thing with a thousand examples.
You can fine tune and just get like 17 percent better performance.
Are there situations you feel like it makes sense or would be critical to train from scratch?
I might consider fine tuning if I have to
fine tune a very small model to do a very specific task on device,
maybe for like a privacy reason, but for pure performance, I just can't imagine
beating Sonnet of 4.0 and 0.1 any time soon, right?
Because by the time you're done training
and you spend a million dollars, the next model is out and you're already behind.
So you really have to have like a whole like a lab.
Like, I mean, how all the big companies do it.
They have research teams that are this is all they do.
They just make models and ship them.
And then you have a separate team that's actually building stuff with them.
Yeah. And like the salary of a single researcher from one of these labs
is more than your entire training budget.
So like what are you doing?
Next one here we have is don't manually curate inventory.
I guess this one, it's more about like the meta tags, not just about getting chunks,
but also some of the data that you include with each of these chunks.
So like, I don't know, what are some of the kind of key things or key
considerations for doing this curation process?
I mean, a lot of it is just like having a good intuition of what the user is trying
to generate and then doing the data analysis again.
It goes back to if I talk to my customers, do I know what they want?
If I look at this topic data, does it reflect that?
And do I have the ability to like find
something interesting about their usage and ask them about it and then make
investments that are like very targeted?
So, for example, in one company, we realized that like 10 percent of all
the questions were around scheduling.
Like, when does this happen relative to that?
If these guys are delayed, is it going to impact the shipment of this other thing?
It was only 10 percent of the queries.
Well, that's because like 70 percent of the queries are all just like contractors
asking about the thickness of drywall or like what screws are on the fifth floor.
Whereas the scheduling questions were being asked by the general contractors
whose job was to like make sure this is a success.
And so those questions are much more valuable.
And so we went in and we doubled down on our ability to process schedules.
And we built a specific index that
understood when things were happening relative to other things.
We just got like a 40 percent improvement.
Oh, wow.
Answering those kinds of questions.
Yeah.
40 percent is just like customer satisfaction.
OK, so you notice that 10 percent of the queries were about this, like scheduling
these scheduling questions.
So you did one of the earlier steps,
which was to build a specific index for those questions.
So you did that query classification and then routed it to that index.
And then I guess what did the index look like?
What were some of the meta tags that were kind of critical in this specialized index?
Basically, it would just like visualize the Gantt chart.
Oh, OK.
This is blocking.
It's a little bit of a graph.
It was really just like in Postgres.
Oh, interesting. OK, that's cool.
We got like seven minutes and we've got like seven more points.
So maybe we'll like we'll pick up the pace a little bit.
But we're going to do Q&A.
So everyone watching live, like feel free to start dropping your comments
in the chat, whether you're on YouTube or LinkedIn.
And then we'll get Jason's response to your questions.
OK, so the next one is don't involve
machine learning engineers in at the ingestion process.
So my question is, like, what's the risk here of not including the ML folks
at the kind of data extraction part?
I'll give a quick example of just not understanding what features might actually
go into the model. Maybe the ML like really has realized that, OK,
we want date times because people ask questions about earliest and latest and
whatnot, and if you just don't include them in that conversation,
they might not actually be extracted the correct way.
Or it turns out that for parsing, crawl date, published date are very different.
Those things like we ran issues like that.
And generally, it's very hard to go back
upstream and correct a lot of data ingestion issues without effectively
rerunning all the jobs that you had before.
And a lot of it just come back down to like good future engineering.
Yeah. OK, so there may be essential pieces
of information that the MLE knows that, hey, we need this.
It's critical for the system.
But if the data engineers or whoever is doing the data extraction don't have that
context, then you're going to have to like go like start from scratch again and
go back and do it. And then the next one we have is treat all inbound inventory
the same. So I'm just curious, like, like, what does this mean?
And what does it look like in practice?
Yeah. So, you know, we might have text jumps and we might want to do embedding
with those text chunks. But what about images?
Right. For images, we might want to summarize the image with some specific
description that is optimized for retrieval.
That is like, what about tables? Right.
Well, depends if I want to search for specific rows on that table.
Maybe I actually need to start building out text indices.
But what if I want most of the questions
I ask are around like the statistics of the tables?
Yeah. If you now want to do like a pandas dot
describe and save that to to improve the my ability to count things or do anything
like that. And so a lot of times, again, figuring out how is someone going to use
this data, what amount of compute am I willing to prepay to get this data earlier
so we can answer the question faster? Yeah.
OK, because you could also just like put
the data into like a for loop and an agent and try to answer the question then.
But if you know that, like, we're trying to do count values or aggregate the means,
you may as well pre-conclude them.
Yeah. OK, that makes sense.
So basically different types of data.
So if you have documents, you might want to process that one way.
If you have images, you're going to want to do it another way.
Tables another way.
If you have some specialized file like
I was working with a lot of like brain activity data, EEG data in grad school.
So if you have EEG data, you maybe want to process that entirely different way.
And then doing those considerations at the outset kind of based on whatever your
system needs and the queries people are asking.
The next one is no need for special ingestion pipelines for different docs.
So I feel like we were touching on this.
But I'm curious, like, how do you approach, like, making that decision?
Because I imagine there is if you think about a company,
they have a tremendous amount of documents that could be included into the system.
But like, how do you make that call of like, actually, we don't necessarily need
to embed all the PowerPoint files because each PowerPoint has like meeting notes
associated with it and we can just like chunk those instead.
And we don't have to worry about reading PPTX files or something like that.
I think a lot of that is just like earn complexity.
Like the first version of the product you build will be pretty simple and you might
just embed everything and then this pattern of going back and going, OK, well,
let me OK, well, I have a bunch of feedback.
What if I group by file type?
What percentage of queries retrieve a PowerPoint?
Oh, it's very low.
Is it very low because people aren't looking for PowerPoints or is it very low
because we'd never retrieved them?
Right. Right.
There's some issue in our ability to recall the inventory.
Then we might say, OK, well, actually, it's very high, but it's very high.
But are our customers happy?
Oh, it turns out that like every time we answer a question about a PowerPoint,
the conversation just like devolves and like the customer is never happy.
Now it looks like there's enough evidence to suggest that PowerPoints are important
and we are not doing very well.
Now let's go investigate how we can make that better rather than just going, well,
let's have a custom ingestion for every kind of file format.
Right. Right. OK, that's interesting.
So it's again, this idea of like data driven development.
And there were two things here.
It's like, OK, is this data important to actually answering queries and helping
customers and to are we just poorly indexing it?
And that's why these aren't coming up.
And then if it is, then you can go back and make that correction.
OK, so next we have if you want to build a bad rag system,
you should never ask your data provider for clean data.
So I'm curious, like maybe like a specific
example of this or like what this might look like in practice.
So a simple example could be imagine you're doing like a recommendation system
for like e-commerce and every company is just giving you just like really terrible
data. I think the junior engineer might say, OK, well, then it's my job to clean
everything up. Let me go spend all this time to do this normalization, etc., etc.
But if you're operating at a higher level, you could just go back to the data
provider and say, hey, your your goals are to make money.
Right. Like you want this to be sold.
And the data quality is so bad that this is not going to rank very highly simply
from that. If you want to do this kind of partnership, maybe we should consider
having a high quality data set aligning on some kind of schema and pushing some
of the work back up to up to the bottom.
Obviously, that's very hard, but oftentimes those conversations do matter.
Can you we work on better ingestion?
Can we make make things more reliable if your data quality is high?
We can serve you better if it's like a marketplace or whatnot.
That's generally how I think about this.
Now, that makes sense.
And I feel like a lot of times it won't hurt to ask.
And a lot of times the data vendor, they're they're experts.
Like that's what they do, process data, extract data.
So it's going to be relatively easier for them to do like some quick fixes as
opposed to, I know, like your junior dad or someone who isn't a data engineer
trying to fix the data. Let's see where the 40.
But let me see. We got just two more.
So let's just go through these and then we'll start Q&A.
And I see the questions are coming in.
So we should we never need to cluster our inventory.
So that's one of the mistakes.
So I feel like we touched upon this, but maybe just maybe like synthesizing or any
other thoughts around this, like of why this is important.
I guess the difference is it's one thing to cluster your user inputs and your
conversations is another to cluster your inventory.
Understanding again, are there more obvious patterns?
The example we gave earlier was, OK, we just clustered by file name.
Then, you know, maybe we can figure out the OK,
turns out half once they're performing really poorly.
Maybe it is something to do with images.
Right.
Not only could it be images, if you cluster on these images,
maybe you find out that some of them are
blueprints, which are just like black and white, incredibly detailed drawings.
Some other ones are like scenes.
Other ones are like photos of faces.
OK, well, if 80 percent of the photos are of faces, maybe we should do something
about that. We have technology to make faces easier to process.
That makes sense, because, you know, even if you want to process images
different than text, I guess that's kind of like obvious because you can't have
the same ingestion pipeline there, but even within images,
there might just be fundamentally different things in the images.
So like the way you process blueprints
and the way you process faces, you might want to have completely different
data pipelines for that. Right.
But if it's faces, like I might just want to have like the names of everyone
in the photo. Yeah. Right.
And like that, if I just did that, maybe that's important.
But I would find out if I looked at my
question set and go, oh, I'm constantly looking for like photos of Jason.
Yeah. Right.
And it turns out half the photos are photos of me.
Did we have the ability to resolve me?
It's probably like a single extra thing in the promise.
Oh, by the way, like if it's Jason's ID, zero.
Yeah. Yeah. OK, that makes sense.
I would make it super easy.
But again, it's just like people aren't thinking about.
And then the last one you have here, which I feel like is, you know,
probably one of the most important on this list or at least maybe one of the least
considered or underweighted by people, at least in my opinion, which is on focusing
on local evals and not a V tests.
So I'm curious, like how you kind of see the place for like these local
evaluations of components of the system as opposed to evaluating the system overall.
I think a lot of this just depends on like where they are at a company and like how
how young the company is.
I think, you know, a local eval that is like a little bit goofy nowadays, like,
you know, every rag eval tool has like 37 different evals of like faithfulness
and like contextual relevancy and then like contextual recall.
And then, you know, whatever those just kind of tend to be an issue where they
just give you like a large suite of numbers to look at, but still doesn't really tell
you what direction you should go or whether these things actually are important.
But if you did look at these eval and then also did some experiments and maybe
tests and figured out that, OK, you know, maybe two of these actually correlate
with churn or correlate with retention.
Now we know we can set a goal and we can just double check.
OK, we the first time it doubled our AB tests improved.
The second time it doubled, AB tests didn't improve.
That's now not the limiting factor.
And what is the new limiting factor?
Yeah, interesting building that muscle and building the behavior of just not only
comparing like precision and recall, but also looking at things like retention
will actually help you build a proper business.
Yeah, that's interesting.
So it's like this critical component of like connecting these engineering metrics
or just like development metrics to business metrics and KPIs, like making
that translation is critical.
Even latency is just the fact that we believe latency probably has an impact on
them, right, because we've seen it in every other example we've ever seen in the world.
Interesting.
Ultimately, we care about like the customer satisfaction, the business outcomes and not
just latency, because obviously then I would just make the fastest model possible.
All right, well, let's open it up for Q&A.
I see we've already got a ton of questions in the chat.
Keep them coming.
But we'll just go through these one by one.
First one from Kevin is does chat to one use rag?
I think just recently I've been able to do a function calling.
And so you could have a rag component.
And so, yeah, generally I would say like it probably can use rag, but not in the way
that it exists in chat to be to itself.
Right now, I've noticed that one can't do search, but I think that's just going to
come in a couple of weeks.
Another one from Nitin is I struggle as a consultant to split my time between
service delivery and promoting my service.
I see you're active on X and writing while having a lot of clients.
How do you manage it?
So I guess not a rag question.
So now we're kind of talking about the consulting side of things.
I do two things.
One is I have quite a bit of automation in my newsletter.
And so if you sign up for like, you know,
improve and rag dot com, you will just get a six day email sequence and then a three
day upsell.
And so if you find my newsletter, you will be given material for the next like two
weeks. Right. That keeps you top of mind.
Then what happens is I actually use a lot of different meeting notes taking apps.
And I take all those transcripts and I actually use the meetings I do with my
clients to generate ideas for blog posts.
And then what happens is I'll say, OK,
based off these six transcripts, you talk about this concept a lot.
Do you want to write a blog post about it?
And then I go, great.
Well, take those six transcripts and like, give me the draft of the blog post.
And that is something that lets me sort of just make my time very high leverage.
These conversations themselves become the blog post.
This conversation could just be like a follow up to the blog post.
Right. Or I could say, given this transcript
and the existing blog post, like make each section longer.
That might only take like 30 minutes, but it can make the blog post like 20 times
better.
I feel like this is something I talked about with another freelancer and creator,
Santiago. He's pretty big on X.
But he was saying that he doesn't do anything that he can't like repurpose
multiple times. I like to call these multi kills.
So it's like a single action that gives you multiple desired outcomes.
So like for you, taking a call is, you know, they're paying you for that
consulting time, but then you're recording the transcript and that's becoming seed
for seeds for blog posts and things like that.
And it also seems like a big part of your
workflow is using Chat
GPT Pro and O1 to automate a lot of tasks for you.
Yeah, a lot of it is like Claude and
4.0 don't really have very long output context.
And so you can only really write like a 8000 token thing.
But with O1 Pro, I put up to 100000 tokens.
And so you can actually generate a very long amounts of content.
Yeah, interesting.
Do you find yourself like doing things for your consulting service, like generating
proposals or things like that with O1?
Yeah. So one thing I'll do is I basically take all the notes from all the standups
every week and I turn them into a single email.
Let's send the CTO.
And this is like, here's the highlights, here's the low lights,
here's everything you got to do.
Yeah, OK, that's cool.
Samir asks, could you could please tell the best strategy to do RAG database?
I guess the technical side, like implementing the vector database or
something like that, if you have any suggestions there?
Not too much.
I mean, I think like the most the tools I use the most would be like
between like Postgres and TimeScale,
LanceDB and ChromaDB.
It really just depends on what your use case is.
And in particular, you know, for example, I will use LanceDB if I want to have
both full text search and embedding search.
I'll use TimeScale and PgVectorScale if most of my data is already in Postgres.
Those are the kinds of things that matter for you.
And it's really going to be the best strategy for what already exists in your
stack. And if you're starting from scratch, really just the one that you're most
comfortable with, whether it's like pure Python, whether it's Postgres,
whether it's like embedded systems or whatnot.
We got a question from Paimon.
How do you see the feature of RAG?
I read your blog on RAG as reporting for deriving decisions inside orgs.
Can you elaborate on that?
Yeah. So the general idea is that I just don't think that Q&A chatbots are very
economically valuable. They don't really unlock a lot of value.
And it's because it's unclear whether or not the time you save one of the any of
these employees is in any way captured by anyone.
Like if you save me 10 minutes of Google
searching, I might just take like a longer smoke break.
It's not really going to be the highest leverage.
And so what do you ask for?
You're going to ask for like two percent of your headcount as payment,
like as your reward.
Unclear. Whereas if you have a lot of general reports,
you can send them directly to decision makers.
Another question is like, how much better am I making your decisions?
Well, that just depends on how big your decision is.
If you're an investor and you're going to invest four million dollars in this
company, then a report that's very good, that finds information that a human might
have missed becomes a different level of accountability.
I mean, that's how I think about these things.
That reminds me something you told me last time we spoke, which is like the value
that you're able to generate isn't a function of your skills.
It's more so a function of the size of your clients problems.
And that's what that that's the example of the investor reminded me of.
Steven asked in the journaling example,
you mentioned that handling the handling of a question like how have my thoughts
changed over the past few months?
How would you go about handling this in a rag system?
Here, it really depends on whether or not this is an important question to answer.
Like if this is a very important question to answer, I might just do summaries.
Right. Maybe I'll just maybe I just have like a week level summary and a month
level summary. And I'll just say you can recover like any any groups of these
summaries together. In which case, if I just said like past few months,
maybe I'm just pulling up the last four months of summaries.
And that might just be enough to answer this question.
It really depends on like how much how important this is.
That's interesting. So it's not just about, you know, can I do it?
It's more so like, should I?
It doesn't matter.
I can be doing something else. I'm going to be like walking in the park.
But yeah, the general idea is if I have data that suggests this is valuable,
like for me, I would probably just do some kind of week level and month level
summarization.
We can pause on the questions from the chat because we kind of went through them
all. But if you guys still have questions, keep them coming.
But I've got a ton of questions from people in the Discord community.
So we can start working through those right now.
The first one is what are the best ways to take into consideration context
when it comes to a ton of documents of large size during document retrieval?
Here it's very different because we have models now that are very good at reading.
And so there is a world where if you have a single document that's like 40,
30 pages and it fits in the context, like you might actually just say,
OK, as long as I know this document has the answer,
I'm going to try to answer that question.
And so there's a lot of ways of cheating the context.
If you know that like it needs 10 documents, you can still use the Gemini.
But the question is, are all the documents relevant?
If you have a hard time finding those documents, then you might want to think
about doing something like a summary where you retrieve the summary
and that summary points to the original document.
Then you use a larger model to read into the context.
But again, it really depends on what kind of question you're trying to ask.
So like a few different strategies.
But if you're using a model with a huge context window,
then chunking doesn't become so important.
What's more important now is how you're representing the information
that is in that document.
OK, Sanjita asked, what strategies or tools do you recommend for monitoring
and debugging retrieval failures or hallucinations in brag workflows,
especially in production environments?
Yeah, so the first one would be doing a lot more grounding
and asking the language model to provide citations and just logging when,
you know, citations are unavailable in the text. That's one thing.
The second thing you can do is run something called a factuality
eval, where you take the text chunk and the answer
and then you ask a language model whether or not the answer is actually
aligned with the document and low factuality
does usually show that there's some kind of hallucination going on
or that the answer is a little bit ambiguous.
And then the last thing would be just looking at whether or not humans
like give feedback.
Like if you ask, you know, a really generic prompt, like, how did we do?
You might not get that much feedback.
But if you have a question that literally just says, like,
did we answer your question?
Do you trust the answer?
That kind of feedback, which is much more aligned with some kind of outcome,
can be used to, again, just review all these examples we're finding.
And then these are things you'll like, like build custom solutions for.
It's not using like an off the shelf product.
Exactly, exactly.
And so we got another question here.
Do you recommend your clients use frameworks like LandGraph?
Why and why not?
I would say that if you're a small team
and you know exactly what you're going to build, I still feel like these days
it's better off just building it from scratch, just because you're going to just
realize how weird your data is.
And all this talk about like exploratory data analysis,
finding out these use cases and then building specific indices.
That will be the majority of work.
And it's going to be just kind of annoying to integrate everything together.
I would say if you're a big company, then it might make sense to use a framework
because now so much of it is actually just minimizing the communication cost.
If you have 40 people and one person is now writing a framework,
they're probably not going to have documentation, supports can be very limited.
And those are going to be the times where you kind of suffer
the consequences of having one person build everything.
It's a really interesting way of thinking about it.
It's more so like the practical implications of just working
with a big engineering team. Exactly.
So we got another one from the Discord, which is is graph
rag a great option when it comes to handling data at a large scale?
I feel like graph databases, people were talking about it on X for a while.
But yeah, I'm curious what you think about this one.
Yeah, I'm generally pretty short on like graphs in general.
I think like in 2015, graphs were a big thing and then they died.
And we went back to like SQL and Postgres.
Even Facebook uses like a MySQL instance for their social graph.
The only time that it was useful to use a graph database was like,
I think the LinkedIn case to compute all the like one, two, three, four,
five degrees away, reading that is actually very difficult in SQL.
And so it's easier to to use a graph database.
But in general, I think there's just too much work and complexity
in terms of like hiring people who know these issues.
Defining the actual graph itself is very difficult,
whereas everyone knows that I think about SQL databases.
And those end up, again, being the technical issues.
Like if you just have a team and they all bought on the graphs, it'd be great.
But once you hire like six more people, half the time is going to be spent
teaching them how to how to interact with the graph.
I feel like physicists love graphs for whatever reason.
And it's like interesting, especially from like a mathematical perspective.
But I guess from a practical perspective, it's just more efficient to not use them.
Yeah. And just use things that people know how to use.
I'm also of the belief that like if you have a graph,
you can convert to an adjacency matrix and factor the adjacency matrix
and recover it in embedding.
So that's one angle. The other angle is if you don't need more than like three hops,
two left joins, probably easier to understand.
Oh, interesting. Yeah.
So maybe this will be the last question,
unless we get another one coming in in the chat.
Sanjita asks, what are some best practices for deploying RAG applications
incrementally and how can teams effectively validate performance
and accuracy at each stage of the rollout?
So what I would probably do is I would build just like a very dumb RAG app
that's like very fast to deploy, start logging things and just figure out
like what is the 80 percent of crews that we can do well.
And for that 20 percent, I would just put it in the prompt and say,
hey, you asked about like latest things we asked about near me.
I can't do that just right now.
But like, you know, we'll let you know when it's available.
Right. And really try to nail down this 80 percent.
And then slowly, because you know what the failure modes are,
you can now just go put in and say, OK, wait, now we did figure out
how to do near me.
We can just sort of have like a pre-filled like button that's like, oh,
now we can answer things.
Do you want to try out the near me feature?
Right. Just do a lot of like product education and like really set expectations
very well, because it's never going to be the case that if you have a product
that works 80 percent, is that every question has an 80 percent chance of success.
It's probably the case that for some questions you can do very well
and then for other questions, you can't answer them at all.
And so it's just easier to just say no to the 20 percent
and then incrementally say yes to a couple of these features
that really matter to you and your business through your data analysis.
Yeah. So just starting really simple and just building solutions
for like that 80 percent of queries or use cases.
And then for the parts that's missing, think more on the user
experience side as opposed to like, OK, how can we like hack this on the
like the engineering side of things?
Yeah, exactly. Exactly.
And I think the less I am just being promoted on building a really complex
AI system, the more I start thinking about whether or not product solutions
and UX can solve the problem rather than building a very complex model.
Because my career does not depend on that complexity.
It just depends on solving the problem.
Well, Jason, thanks so much for sharing your insights and coming on Saturday morning.
I know it's relatively early for you, like on the West Coast.
And then thank you, everyone, who joined live and asked your questions in the chat.
And with that, once again, thanks, Jason, and we'll see you guys in the next one.
Thank you. Take care, everyone.
