Matthew, hello.
Holding a session in Asia timings, much appreciated that.
Yeah, it's, it's nice.
Cause otherwise it's always at 1 30 AM for me.
Yeah.
We've been thinking about what else we could do if we do the course again.
A lot of things will brainstorm, but I think there are a lot of things we could
do to improve it, especially for, and then I think it's even harder.
It's hard now for people in Europe.
We haven't set up a separate session for them, but they can't really do this one
because it's a terrible time for them and they could sort of do ours, but they
could sort of do the North American time, but times are, times are hard.
Yeah.
I used to, for events like this, enjoy making predictions, like how many people
will show up and I said, like, well, data scientists, what we do is prediction.
And so we should be good at it.
But now what we do isn't exactly prediction anymore.
So it doesn't quite bring the same.
How do you think the whole data science scene is changing since you say that?
Can you elaborate on that?
Yeah.
So I guess there was an extended period of time where we thought that prediction
of either classification or regression predicting at some number, mostly with
tabular data or with data that maybe with one text field, then you can make a tab
there with like TFIDF or some backwards representation.
We thought that those sorts of predictions would be extremely useful or
like applicable everywhere.
And shortly before LMS came into popularity or before chat TBT came out, we
realized that the breadth of use cases for tabular prediction was like 20% as
wide as people once thought.
And I was at the time I started a company where I sold a data robot and I was
looking like what are the use cases we're serving and we would have these
advertisements saying like, it's going to revolutionize every business process.
But then the things that it was actually used for was churn prediction, lead
scoring, demand forecasting, one or two other things.
And so you heard something that everyone thought was going to be so broadly useful.
Unless you're at a big tech company where all the decisions need to be made at
immense scale and in milliseconds for most things like human process, if you
ran like a grocery store, it turns out machine learning wasn't so widely useful
to you.
And so I think conventional machine learning started getting less
investment on like the Gartner.
It was going into that trough even before large language models picked up.
Analytics was still broadly useful.
And I think now the people who were in machine learning, with conventional
machine learning or prediction, or who would have gone into it most are working
in generative AI in some way.
And as a result, we got saved from the lack of career opportunities because
we were able to transition.
The other thing that's really amazing to me is that unless you, with some
exceptions, the skillset that is required to do AI engineering is actually quite
different from the skillset that was required to do feature engineering.
And actually we, so like there are, there is some overlap thinking about, do I
have leak, do I have target leakage in some way or look at your data?
But for the most part, like the skills are pretty different.
I'm, I know actually as data scientists go, I know like a lot of statistics and
almost none of that is particularly useful for the projects that we do with
generative AI.
And so we switched over not because our skills were so, so transferable, but
because people thought they were both AI or ML.
And so we got to, we got sort of a pass to switch over more easily than I
think was probably warranted.
Very interesting.
That's my, yeah.
I think that's someone could disagree and I wouldn't think they're crazy, but
that's like my current sense.
Oh, right.
Should we kick off office hours?
I don't know if Dan you had anything else to, I know, I mean, we just like
launched a survey, but I don't know if there's anything else we need to call out.
Yeah.
So you should have received an email about the survey and then I posted, I
think in the general Slack channel, you should have received credits.
If you didn't already fill out the form for modal, I would do that.
Charles from modal is going to come modal is I think an awesome service.
So you should, and then $500 is a fair amount of credits.
So you should take advantage of that.
And like I said, in Slack, if you have not gotten that, you haven't set up
accounts with unstructured or brain trust, or I think llama or slash llama cloud,
then do that.
And then in about a week, I'm going to ask them to run the credit allocation
script again, so you still have a chance to get those credits.
I don't think there's any other bookkeeping.
Cool.
Yeah.
Should we just jump into questions and let's do it.
If nobody has questions, maybe we can also just have a conversation on some
of the content we've had this past couple of weeks.
Has everyone like watched the videos up until this week already, or are most
people still on like week three?
Cool.
Yeah.
I think one of the questions we asked for the breakout rooms was around like,
what kind of processes could we model for both humans and all lens?
I'm curious for the folks in this, this call, like, have you guys thought about
building out routers before?
And if so, how often are we actually exposing these APIs to both the language
model and to users, for example, in the example of like searching blueprints,
sometimes if we know the user wants to search images or wants to search
proposals or contracts, we don't force them down this natural language path.
We allow them to just go into like a contact, a contract search tool or an
image search tool, and it just so happens that the tool that language model uses
is the same tool that the human uses to do some of the search.
So I'm really curious to hear some of your thoughts on that.
So I, I, I, I'm hesitant to speak to the details of what I'm working on,
but, but it's a, it's a challenge, right?
With respect to both product and the experience design and everything,
because the claim and also the desire for AI systems and things like that is
that they will understand the intent and the expected outcomes and accordingly
morph into whatever code path is desired.
So that's kind of the desire and the intent and how we want to set expectations.
However, like we have been dealing with in this course, these things are not
perfect yet and what is that right trade off to show or ask the user, like any
kind of confirmation, like if you have two possible intents, which one should
be like this short as the user versus let's just go down the most likely
intent and have some way to course correct once the answer is generated.
Like those are some pretty hard decisions.
And it's just, it's not just, it's not just engineering, right?
It's also how the UX or how the product wants the product to, to, to look and to behave.
Yeah, I definitely agree.
I think part of the belief is that, okay, if we have a natural language
interface, that is actually going to be preferred by most users.
And I'm not, that's kind of, that's something where I don't
really have that much data on, right?
It's like, I think when we have expert users that know exactly what they want.
Having to sort of use a natural language description versus just
being able to sort of use one of these specific tools.
I think that's a matter of like doing a lot of experimentation, right?
Like if I want to understand the weather, sometimes I just want to like shout out
like Alexa, what's the weather, but other times when I know exactly what I want, I
do want to just go open up my weather app, see a seven day forecast and understand
that this weekend I shouldn't go to the park.
I don't really want to have a conversation around that.
Do you, do you guys have like, like a data science team or a product team that
does that kind of hypothesis testing or, or is it very much the case that
like leadership just wants a, a search box and no other UI.
Right.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
So, so there is a lot of user testing.
So we are, we are a big company.
So even within our company, we have a lot of kind of different roles and kind of
personas that we can go and have these alphas and letas and have people use it
and get feedback.
So, so there's definitely that also the kind of questions people are already
asking in the field can give us a sense of what they are likely to ask, should
were we to advertise these other kinds of features and some of the things that,
that don't exist in terms of capabilities, people are already trying to ask.
I think you also covered it pretty well in many of your talks that like people
don't know, they shouldn't have to know like what the system is capable of.
The system should inform them and educate them what, what it can or cannot do.
And maybe have some guardrails, et cetera, to make sure they can learn as they
use the system.
So, yeah, so, so that is, that is the case, but it's an open ended system.
I think the one thing that would be interesting to cover in your course at
some point would be how do you deal with multi-language inputs?
Right.
So right now English itself is a fair amount of usage, but there's other
languages, European, but even non Latin.
How, how should these systems be built so that, because the intent and
et cetera, like it's even hard to judge, like English laws, we can review and
get some quick sense of what like Japanese, et cetera, we can translate
course, but it's just harder to have maybe cultural and all these kinds of
understanding of how people would ask in their natural language, some of these
intents, so that's, that's something that is a little bit tricky.
Yeah.
I definitely agree.
I think one of the, if I, if I reframe it as just what are the risks of
not having bad translation, one thing I've noticed that is that if we have
prompts that are in English, then there was always some P probability that the
responses or like the arguments end up being in English, even if the input data
is not in English, like we have a lot of examples where we have prompts that do
like call summarization or extract action items, and if the conversation was
just in Turkish, the action items would still be returned in English.
I think, I think part of, I mean, most of what we've done so far has just been
leaning on the capabilities of something like GPT-4 or potentially some of the
cohere multilingual models.
And then as part of the prompting, figure out, okay, what arguments are
like some symbols, right?
For example, like a filter key, those might just be in English because that's
just like the enums that we've used versus actually having to do keyword search
or text search in a different language.
But when you say like the, a lack of the cultural side of things, like, do you
have an example of like what a failure mode could look like?
Yeah.
So for example, let's say we have a summarization code path and I don't know
how a person using Japanese would ask the document to be summarized.
So for example, in English, there could be different variations they could use,
and we could have them in our test suite and make sure those are inferred
correctly by the author.
But with something like Japanese or Chinese or all these other languages
coming in, it just becomes a little bit of a wire card, how these routers are
going to behave when dealing with, I don't know how a Chinese person is going to
frame a request to shorten the document or something like that.
Yeah.
And this, this request to shorten is less of like a, using a summarized tool, but
just having some instructions.
Cause I definitely know that like, just GPT in Chinese apparently has like a very
specific tone, right?
That like, I'm not aware of, but yeah, when I have friends that read that it
definitely is a thing, but yeah, that's definitely going to be a challenge to
figure out what, what kind of training data exists in these, these language
models to do this kind of task.
Cause yeah, I don't, I don't think, I don't know if I know GPT-4 has like
Japanese specific language evals, but yeah, I'm not sure.
I'm not sure like where OpenAI is spending most of the energy.
The other curious fact is that most of these LLMs like English is obviously
the best performing language and then everything else has a drop off with
respect to English, what that drop off is with respect to intent understanding,
etc is, is hard to assess.
Yeah.
I think they're just, I think if it was summarization specifically, maybe, maybe
then like we need to have like summarization type evals, which I think
Eugene has written a lot about, but for more, for other things, like whether
it's like router selection or whatnot, those might be a little bit more easier
to just sort of segment and again, model things like precision and recall.
Any other thoughts on sort of the, the general split between LLM tools versus
also exposing some of these interfaces to, to downstream consumers, right?
Cause I think if we look at something like Google, right, Google has yet to
avoid using routers that take you to different UIs, right?
It's like, if you search for an image, if you search for a video, if you
search for a product, Google will try to show you product specific interfaces.
Right.
And I think even like given that it's still the case that when we, when Google
tries to then build some kind of natural language, text answering system,
it's not very good, right?
Usually the intent is a lot stronger.
If I want to find images, I want to be shown images.
And then once they're images, I want to be, I want to be able to filter for like
the created date or the image size or like by color, right?
Because those are sort of like, symbolizing a something that you can use to
improve the satisfaction of whatever assets you're trying to show the user.
We have actually done this.
So like our, as I mentioned earlier, as well, we have this agent that has
like two tools only one is to create charts and one is to create summary.
And we have widened the summarization bit directly into wherever
the user is seeing feedback.
So you can directly ask questions, leveraging that tool.
And even in that tool, it's kept like the filter creation part.
So user can directly provide filters from the quantifier builder, what we call
or the in the UI and then ask questions.
So then we basically bypass the agent plus the filter selection that we have
and directly summarize using rag.
In those situations, do you ever use the user interaction data to potentially
improve the few shotting examples and potentially fine tune the language models?
I have one use case where when we have sales emails that are coming inbound,
we're able to segment them into multiple search queries and render that to the UI.
And then we have the sales team.
If they want to improve the search queries, just edit some of the queries.
And then by doing that, we can basically fine tune like a GPT 3.5 that is five
times faster and like five times cheaper than GPT 4.
We haven't started fine tuning yet.
So we are still working around.
So right now the prompts that we give to the user, and these are some of the
questions that you get are still not dynamic in nature.
So they don't take account like what is the context of the query?
What is the feedback that you're looking at?
And then accordingly, we are just, just do it.
So we have first fixed that so that the queries are more that will allow users
to actually ask more powerful questions.
And then we start segmenting the type of questions that users are asking.
We haven't yet spent time on segmenting, but what we have seen with the chat
interface itself is the range of questions is quite big.
So like the questions are very simple.
And then there are like a table of very long questions that are like very
complex and require like a lot of analysis, which the planning can do.
So how do those, like still something that's up in the air.
Yeah, that's definitely, that should be a question you ask Vyta
Anker from Brain Trust and Zapier.
I think they're thinking about doing a lot more planning based systems in
their Zapier AI integrations.
And so I'm curious what they have to say about that.
When I was working with them, it was basically issue of, we're trying to
do things in a React loop and it's very hard to get reproducible results.
By building a DAG, the hope is to have much more reliability, much
more higher reliability in those systems.
We also went through these loops.
Basically our agent like has been re-architected multiple times.
First it started out with React.
Then we started to make it more like a DAG.
We moved back to React.
And again, we are using a DAG.
And this side of it.
What, what was the, what was the limiting factor when it came from
going from a DAG back to a React type model?
So we wanted to basically, because we felt that the earlier DAG was not
working out well, we wanted to have more connectivity with the user so that
they make corrective actions on top of the steps that we were trying to execute.
I see.
But that the latency trade-off was too high.
You could not run with many things in parallel.
So that made it so that the complexity became too much and it was the
users were also not really very interactive with the corrective process
because they felt that there is too much complexity and too
much overload in doing that.
So we went back and this was like early before we launched it to a wider set
of audience, so just our internal testing.
And we felt it wasn't working well.
Then the current approach was a DAG, but with a slight re-orchestration
with only two rules and not giving too many options made it a lot
more consistent than before.
That makes sense.
Yeah.
Cause I think in the Zapio case, it's like, I wouldn't be surprised if like 90%
of all Zaps had less than three, three nodes in the DAG.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cause one of the goals with producing the DAG was if you can iteratively modify
the DAG, then what would happen is regardless of what kind of conversation
you have, there's sort of a final target artifact that you want to produce
from that conversation.
And if you had that final artifact, you could produce a fine tuning data set
that says, take this entire conversation, summarize it into a single request.
And then that summary is assigned to that DAG, right?
And then if I want to do few shotting, I can just basically do search
against the summaries and find like six different DAGs that look like the
one I might care about.
Right?
So if it's like, okay, turn my type form into an email and then add a row to notion.
Like there would be like 10 examples of DAGs that do that.
And then you could use that.
And then ultimately you, then you can build a fine tuning data set that says,
okay, I have like 6,000 examples of summaries to Zap your DAGs.
Now let's fine tune it.
And now we just have a data set to fine tune against.
Sound like for your case, it's like two complex of a DAG or is it
still like two, three nodes?
It depends.
Like in some cases it's two, three DAGs nodes only in some cases
it's just one node even, but users can write a very complicated question.
Like say 10 entities they'll mention.
You could feedback from all these 10 things and then provide an overview.
So now there we have even seen like the code breaks because we are running
everything asynchronously and suddenly we're getting SSL timeouts at the
connection breaks, we are not able to process that.
So there are like a lot of code challenges around these kinds of very large
DAGs that need to be processed that we're trying to answer.
And then there are even cases where systems that are downstream start to
break if the nodes are too complex, because those systems are written to be
built in smaller and very granular nodes.
But if the nodes become complex, then those start to break as well.
Yeah.
Cause I think, I think our goal is like, yeah, if we can produce a single DAG,
we can send it to an execution engine and then the execution engine can handle
all the concurrency that, and maybe all the types and, and all the checking.
And then if there's any errors, we just give it back to the language model.
But yeah, I can see how if it's very wide fan outs, you might have a lot more like.
Issues.
And what we do is we don't wait for the entire plan to be generated even.
So we stream the plan and start execution as soon as that with the
latency for the customer is a lot.
We start streaming as well to do this is what is happening right now.
So that will be, you don't feel like you're waiting for the
entire plan to be generated.
Yeah.
I'm going to cover that a little bit in week six, basically doing a lot of like
stream streaming planning using partials and didropoles, but so I'm curious to
hear what you have to think, say about that, but I'll also just jump to
a question that Matthew had.
Matthew.
Yeah, sorry.
If I don't, if this is a stupid question, but by DAG you guys are referring to
for example, in Zappier, this the workflow one, and then it connects to another.
And exactly.
Okay.
I see.
And as far as routing, is that one of the main implementation paradigms you
recommend or you mentioned react or you're talking about like actual react UI
stuff or like, no, no, no.
So.
Yeah.
Let me, let me first define react, which is like react is reason and act.
Okay.
And so the idea is like, let me put in a loop.
And so I'm going to let the language model decide, okay, given where you are
and the request and I set up tools, which tool should I call?
Okay.
Call this tool, this tool return to this response.
Cool.
And then you put it on a given this response and the original goal.
What is the next tool I can call?
The issue is those aren't guaranteed to terminate.
And so if you looked at the auto GBT a year ago, you would get, you would get a
world where I think someone tried to like buy a bicycle and it ran for seven hours.
And what ended up happening was like, they went back to sleep.
They went to sleep.
You woke up the next day and it was, Oh, I see a JSON parsing error.
Let me remake a post request.
Oh, I see the JSON.
And then it just costs them like $40.
Right.
Whereas if you were to produce a DAG, you effectively like a directed
acyclic graph, you can basically say this DAG has six steps.
I'm going to run those six steps and get a result.
And if that's not the result I want, I've at least terminated, which is one thing.
And secondly, with the DAG, you can do a lot of checking, right?
And so there's something that's incorrect in the structure of this call.
You can sort of avoid that, but that's almost like routing like plus plus in my
mind, cause it's, it's, it's less about tool use and more about structured outputs.
But that tends to be a little bit more, more complex, I would say.
Interesting.
And then just one follow up to any of the, the cloud tools out there, like
LAM index or anything, do they push you in one direction or the other in your experience?
So I think for Lang chain, they almost do a third thing, which is they
define almost like a state machine.
So if you look at Lang graph, what they do, and to be fair, like chat bots that
use state machines has been around for like a long, long time.
Like I think I used to build a bunch of like Facebook chat bots in like 2016,
and they were all state machines.
And basically what happens is you would be at a certain node and at that node,
you have a bunch of different edges that you can transition to.
And the language can, language model can choose which transition to take.
And then you transition to another state.
And then from there, you would ask what is next transition.
And so based on how you build that DAG, like you might always terminate or you
might, you might still have like cycles and whatnot, but it's almost like a third
way of building these things, right?
One is the language model produces a graph versus there's an agent that has a
state machine and the language model chooses to transitions in that graph.
And then there's the react model, which is kind of just like a single
node that goes to itself.
Right.
I would say those are kind of the three big paradigms, but I think all three are
valid, right?
Like there's this, there's this notion of like Bell's paradigm of Bell's, I
forget what the Bell's principle, whatever, which just says that like any
existing complex system was derived from an existing complex system and producing
DAGs and using state machines both have like been successful for decades.
And so I'm not, I'm not like leaning one side or the other.
Interesting.
Thank you.
Like, um, yeah, like if you look at the chat, planning tasks is an example.
And then if you look at land graph is another example, but that said, I'm
probably mostly bullish on either using the state machine or producing a DAG.
The only benefit to me is I can fine tune a language model of the output, the
DAG where it's still not clear how I can fine tune the state machine.
I don't know.
Those are like specific enough, but I can try to share my screen and look at
some documentation as well, if you'd like.
That's good.
And then the DAGs are kind of encapsulated and that's why it makes it easier for
an alum to characterize those for you.
Exactly.
Cause you can say like, here are like the 10 node options and here are the six
add options and your job is just like play with Legos and plug them together
in a way that gets me the final result.
And then my system can say, Hey, you plug the, you plug these systems
together incorrectly, right?
You're, or like, you're missing an argument and you can kind of type check this DAG.
And so the error messages of the DAG kind of let the language
model know how to, how to fix it.
Yeah.
So if I, if I show my full screen, like this is kind of a JSON object version
of a graph, right?
Where I asked the language model, what is the difference between the population
of Canada and Jason's home country?
And you'll realize, okay, well to figure that out, I actually need to know
what Jason's home country is.
Then I need to figure out what the population of Canada is.
So then the population of Canada is of Jason's home country.
And then find the difference, right?
Like I can't do a single step of search.
And what you can do is you can basically do something like this with a language
model can produce a node, the question for that node, and if it has any dependencies.
Right.
And so you see here, the population of Jason's home country depends on
identifying Jason's home country.
And so you can just send this JSON object to some execution engine and
just have code figure this out.
Right.
And maybe it's just like, okay, given this, should I do a search or should I use,
should I ask for like human input?
And then you can kind of reduce everything.
And the idea is that given any of these, there should be like a correct answer.
And that's kind of how you do fine tuning.
Whereas if you look at something like line graph, I don't know if
there's a good description of it here.
This graph, this, this state machine is defined externally.
And then how you transition the state machine is dependent on the language model.
And this is how, this is how, how we've like built chat bots for decades.
And so I definitely think this is sort of a, this is a durable abstraction when
it comes to making these agent systems.
Yeah.
So it started, it's going to reason about the agent is going to either do
some action and then come back.
Like this is, this is basically the react model.
The agent takes an action, gets a result, takes an action, gets a result,
and eventually terminates.
And then obviously I think you can warn that like, you might get stuck in this
loop and you'll never terminate, but that's more of a computer science thing.
I think with these systems, you can build pretty, pretty complex agents.
Webaf, another question?
Yeah.
So wanted to ask, have you thought about how can we go about evaluating plans?
So like given a question, you got a dad, but how can we evaluate and then
start to improve that that is something we haven't yet solved.
I wanted to hear any thoughts around that.
Man, I don't have any good answers.
I think the simplest thing to do is just checking for some notion
of correctness in the graph.
Right.
So a simple example is when I ask a language model to write TypeScript, I run
the TypeScript through a type checker.
Right.
And it's the type error.
Really you can think of like the entire code base is this like AST and it's a type
error means like something about the edges was incorrect.
Right.
Right.
So you can imagine for this, for this JSON plan, I can run some tests that just says
like, oh, are there any cycles or are there like, is there anything wrong with
the structure of the DAG?
So those are, those are like some computer science type tests.
Outside of that, I'm not fully sure if there's any good, good literature on how
to do this like multi-hop planning.
Like, I think you can do it in a really simple case where it's like Wikipedia
questions or math questions where the answer is easy to evaluate.
Right.
Yeah.
If you were to go to like, okay, like, yeah, but I don't know if you have had
examples where it's like, okay, you're, you're Zapier.
Like, I don't know if Zapier has like a super solid system to evaluate, except
for the fact that they know when the DAG has an error, right?
So one thing you can do is you can type check the DAG, then you can check for
cycles and you can do all your computer science tests.
And then the second thing is when you execute the DAG, are there any errors
and where are the errors found?
Right.
If you produce like, if you're Zapier and like your top five most common
components are like email, probably type form and like Excel and Notion.
You still, you likely have a per node error rate across all the workflows you've
ever had the language multi-generate.
In which case you can probably figure out like, okay, like if this is your
segmentation, maybe you find that, oh, wow, we are really not doing email.
Well, for some reason.
Right.
And if these, if these, if the input to this email node is some kind of schema,
are we like inputting invalid bodies?
Are we inputting invalid emails?
And now you're gonna find like not only the node level issues, but potentially
like the input field level issues.
Right.
These are still evaluations on the correctness of the DAG and some notions
of correctness on the execution that is, that still feel very binary.
Right.
It's like, if you input a date that's invalid, that's, that's an error, but
in terms of answer quality, I think that's, that's going to be as challenging
as evaluating generation.
And would it make sense to evaluate the steps that the model has given basically?
So like, do them follow a logical consistency or would following those
steps actually get to an answer?
Without looking at the actual execution, because execution itself is like
independent of the node creation right now.
Yeah.
I think semantically, you might be able to use an LLM to check some kind of
ordering, but I would also suspect that's, that's going to be very use case specific.
I've only thought about like sending emails and receiving emails and like,
when a type form form is being submitted, it creates an entity that's passed it.
And emails like, what would be an example in your case where you
feel like you could test that?
So people ask some questions like what kind of issues do users face when they,
when we lose a D and which competitors are they mentioning leveraging over us instead?
Now, this is a very complex question there and you need to first identify the
competitors, you need to identify the issues and you need to collate those into
a final answer and you also need to check that the deal is actually lost.
So now the number of things that need to be done are complex in the
model needs to understand and it's the reasoning needs to be very solid.
Okay.
What are the different steps and how do I actually strict stitch them
together to get to the final answer?
I wonder in that example, like how much, and by the way, like, I know we're kind
of just like jamming on this problem, but if anyone has any other questions, like
definitely like raise your hand or have any comments, but yeah, I wonder how
many of those actually have dependencies.
So sometimes they do like there are complex dependencies that like you need
to identify the competitors and then for each competitor, do some sort of an
analysis, like why are we losing these two each competitor, break it down by
the competitors.
So in that case, you need to first identify, add as your first dependency
and then for each of them, create new nodes and those new nodes basically need
to be executed for QK for this competitor.
What was the feedback?
So the kind of decomposition also happens where in the first node leads to the
decomposition of the subsequent nodes.
And then the DAG itself, the model cannot basically predict what would the
competitors, so it creates a single node, but then we decompose it based on the

Yeah.
Yeah.
That's something that would be hard to figure out using the state machine model.
Cause you might assume that like it might turn to terminate.
Like that's kind of where, that's why I kind of liked this idea of producing DAGs
because if someone just came up to me with that example, I'll go, Oh, wow, this
is something we don't have a capability for.
Let me just produce like 10 more examples of questions that look like this and
they're correct DAGs, put them in my like snippet database and check if this
actually improves the performance.
Like if I had this kind of feedback and it really mattered and it was a capability
I cared about, I would just sort of like,
We do have a snippet library as well, but we haven't seen that to help out as
much as we would like, like, because maybe the retrieval is not good enough.
It would be an issue.
So we need to spend more time there.
So like planner was like something we haven't invested in since we rolled out
V1, that was something we were thinking about how to improve now since we have
solved some of the other burning pains, but texture SQL.
Yeah.
I would love to test two things, right?
One is given a question, can I retrieve that, that good snippet?
And then the second question I would ask is condition on if the snippet was in
there, does it actually improve the likelihood that I've generated a correct answer?
Right.
Makes sense.
And if you can,
yeah, cause, cause I definitely agree that it might be the case that we need to have
better retrieval on those snippets.
But I think if we could just come up with like 10 examples of going, Hey, we have
a very similar DAG and a language model does not look at it or no matter how much
we prompt it, it's still unable to reason about this, then those become sort of
like larger fundamental issues with language models capable of, but yeah,
you just have a number that's like, what is the probability we find the right
example and then another number, which is the condition on that we found the right
example and it is in the prompt.
Can we generate a successful answer and just figure out like which number is
lower and try to improve it.
Makes sense.
Yeah.
Right now our library has like only 10, 20 samples.
It's not a very extensive library.
So I think spending more time expanding it might be worthwhile.
Yeah, because if both those numbers are like 50%, maybe we just say like, okay,
you know what, this is just going to be really impossible.
But if it turns out like one, like if, for example, it's, we find that like, okay,
if we found the right example, we always got a good answer.
Then we know we just have to invest in better retrieval.
Maybe we fine tune in to a better model.
Maybe we make, maybe this is, this is the energy you need to go.
Okay.
Let's go from 20 examples to like 200 examples.
Let's just, let's cover like every possible different use case for doing turn
analysis.
I doubt there's 200 different ways, but people doing turnout analysis.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I bet like, I bet there's like 20 that most companies use.
Like, do we lose, do we lose people from competitors?
There's probably like 20 reasons people sign out.
Can we systematize each one, make three examples for each and just really
fit us, figure that out.
If we demonstrate that conditioned on having the right snippet, our success
probability is like 99% or something.
But that's how I would like systematize that a little bit more.
Before we go on with that, I think there's a quick question.
Quick question.
We built a document assistant that securely stores and helps chat with PDFs.
Recently, we have added functionality where the system decides whether to
process the entire text of the PDF or use a RAG approach based on the user's
query.
For example, if a user requests a summary, the full text might be more appropriate.
However, maintaining the conversation context for the entire chat history
challenging due to the limited storage capacity, we're seeking an effective way
to store and manage the conversation history without overwhelming our storage
resources.
Additionally, we frequently deal with large PDFs for their complicating
storage and processing.
Okay.
Let me think about this for a second.
So it's like, sometimes we choose to return the full document.
Other times we choose to return chunks, but the limitation is around.
So Lang chain has a pretty, again, so I think any solution here really is going
to be like a latency versus story trade-off.
What Lang chain apps did a while back was do summaries of the current history.
And so instead of just having a messages array and then in the middle of that
messages array, having like 50,000 tokens of a text document, we will ask a
language model to summarize some portion of it in such a way where like the last
10 messages is all that's included and then anything beyond 10 messages is
summarized.
So there's some notions of like summarization as a way of improving that.
There's other prompt libraries, like what cursor uses, where it's like really
complex, but it kind of looks like XML and you can effectively limit the number
of tokens per like template variable.
And so you can basically what, what, what cursor is like prompting library does is
it can dynamically figure out like, what should we summarize?
How many messages can we include for each message?
How long can it be in such a way where we will want to constrain it to be less than
like 50,000 tokens.
And so yeah, there's one, which is just like, can we just summarize everything and
replace the messages with a summary?
And the second one is, can we be smarter and more intentional about the limits that
we set on some of this context?
The other thing too, is maybe, maybe it's the case that if we answer our question,
we can include the summary, but once we're done, the summary, we just don't
include the full body in the next messages array, right?
And if you want to answer another question, we just might have to like inject
it back in and pull that out.
I don't know, Dan, if you have any other thoughts on this.
Yeah, I have two other thoughts.
So I think there's a part of this question that I'm, that I might not
understand some of the, what the product looks like.
If the issue is that someone has a long history, long conversation, because they
ask one question about one document and they bring in another question for another
document, and ideally what you want them to do is just start a new conversation
adding a little UI widget that says, Hey, we are reaching the end of some little UI
widget that says basically we're reaching the end of our storage, which is the
context window could be, I think a quite simple solution.
And then to know how many tokens you've used, it would be straightforward.
And then if there's a, if the concern is latency, when you have a back and forth,
if you're using Claude, this could be a nice place to use the new KV caching.
They've uploaded a huge document and now every time you want to process something,
you're going to process, you have a long back and forth.
Every time you're going to process something, you need to re process a 50,000
token document, they've made it now easy with like a little, an extra argument to
just cache the processing of that document.
Yeah.
And then you wouldn't repay the latency penalty of reading the document every time.
Yeah.
I feel like in the, in the, in ArrayCast, we had an issue where by default, everyone
messages the same context history.
And one of the solutions we prototype was just like, could we, could we have a
tool that says start new thread?
And like, just, just by having a simple prompt that's like, call this function.
If you think the con the conversation has changed, we'll just like render a
motor that says, Hey, if you start a new conversation, it's going to be cheaper
for you, it's going to be a little bit faster and we can like organize your
conversations and we just presented the benefits of starting a new conversation.
I think that was like 85% accurate with a terrible prompt and some, like
20 bad examples, but I don't know if that answered your question.
I think.
Yeah.
If you can just follow up with a message that says, okay, like, is it the case
that we do want to have everything in the prompt or is the case that we should just
be pushing the user to, to change the messages?
Yeah.
I think that answered my question.
But then again, the concern was that when we summarize the context, we tend to
use out a lot of information.
Yes.
Yeah.
So that's something we have buried out.
I think there's something to be done there, which is figuring out why.
Like if I just give a two hour video, like if I just gave like Claude, the first
video of this lecture series and just said, summarize this, we might get six
sentences that says, like the speaker talks about the importance of having
metrics, which is like a correct summary, but maybe it's too short of a summary.
And so I think a part of there might be actually just focusing on the
summarization prompt and figuring out when we do misinformation, what exactly
are we losing?
Like, what are we not recalling in our summary?
Like I even actually did a great post on doing chain of density summarization,
where one of the goals of the summarization is to make sure we
preserve all named entities.
And so what that means is the summarization is incentivized to say,
Jason Liu speaks about the importance of techniques one, two, and three
versus the speaker, because Jason Liu is an entity that we want to preserve.
Right.
And so there's, there's some notions of the summarization there where maybe we
benefit from saying, preserve all the entities, preserve all the facts.
Here are some reasons why we do summarization, if that makes sense.
Yeah.
I also wonder if you can do something with the UI so that users can express
dissatisfaction with an answer that came from RAG, and then you fall back on
handling the whole document in those, just in those cases.
Yeah.
That's something we're thinking about getting feedback from the users themselves.
Yeah.
It works.
Yeah.
I think one metric that I try to, I'm trying to consider pushing out more on is,
can we generate some statistics over the chunks and say, for all the
chunks that are returned, are they from many documents or a few documents?
Right?
Like if we return 10, 10 text chunks and they came from 10 different documents,
that's a different statistic than if, if 10 text chunks came from a single document.
A lot of index calls out like small to big, but I think there's some
hierarchical nature of how we can think about some of these things.
Like for example, one of the clients I work with that does marketing, we know
that pricing documents, like pricing questions should just use the entire
pricing document rather than trying to do search, whereas asking about use cases.
That's something that we can use chunks for.
We just basically have a classifier in there.
Bito asks, anyone know about using Claude caching in prod?
I wonder if there's any gotchas.
And then Matthew says, I know that the pricing of using the cache is not cheaper
than open AI for many, maybe the model using the cache content in cloud is
superior so the cache does not be on that cheap, it's still justified.
I have not experimented too much with the prompt caching.
I only know that like you can prompt, you can prompt the system message,
sort of cache the system message.
But I even remember like seeing prompt caching in Gemini and not being
super impressed with it.
I don't know.
Dan, have you played with prompt caching a little bit?
Maybe.
I've done nothing more than read the blog post.
Like it, it conceptually seems like a good idea and like it should work, but
I haven't actually tried it.
I haven't.
Maybe we should do come up with some, some benchmarks for the instructor library
and see if, if anything comes out of that.
Yeah.
I think in principle it's very useful, but even then I think, oh, one of the
gotchas I know of is that the prompt caching time to live is like short.
Five minutes.
Five minutes.
And so like, I think it's really just for conversations.
Like if you're doing like code development, it might not make sense
because you might cache the entire code base, but if you don't make another
request in five minutes, you like lose the cash and so there's some, there's
depending on the use case that might, it might differ.
I think in the long run, it's not just conversations.
I think that they hope that someone's going to have like a hundred pages of
documents in our production app.
And they always want this context to be there.
And it's almost like a replacement for some version of rag.
This is always there.
There's always enough traffic that mostly keep it live.
Yeah.
I mean, I think I would consider doing that for like the instructor documentation.
Yeah.
We just loaded once and if you have enough traffic, we should, we can, we can do it.
Oh, someone has a question.
Is he all?
Yeah.
I think we're, uh, no more about Colbert.
So I, uh, I think Ben was supposed to talk about Colbert.
Uh, so when do you suggest to go with those embeddings and then against
that other, other sort of.
Yeah.
I mean, I am not an expert on like interaction models, so I'm not going to say much,
but two things, one, Dan, correct me if I'm wrong, but Ben will still
present, but on a Wednesday, Ben is joining us next Wednesday.
Okay.
So, so we'll definitely talk about that.
The second thing is, so today, I don't know if you were at the, uh, Lance TV talk,
but they showed some like closed benchmarks that they're going to open up soon.
And the cohere reranker V3 outperforms Colbert and it outperforms the answer AI.
So it cohere V3 outperforms Ben's model.
It's all I saw.
And so I would use Colbert if your benchmark says Colbert is better.
That's like the lazy answer.
I think there's other like answers around like, how well does it standardize
across other infrastructures, right?
There might be differences if you have like 1 million vectors versus 30 billion
vectors, but, but yeah, I think for me, I almost never think about the model.
Like the model is like an implementation detail.
Mostly what I think about is how easy it is.
Is it to train this model?
How much capacity does it have and what metrics do I care about optimizing for?
Yeah.
Usually to me, the model is just something I have to pick to satisfy
other constraints that I have, right?
It's like when I was training, like vision models, like ResNet 52,
outperforms ResNet 34, but ResNet 34 fits nicely on like a cheap EC2
instance and runs on a CPU.
So I'm just going to pick that instead.
Cause these models, well, they're going to change this year.
Next year, there's going to be V4 and Colbert five.
But like one thing I'll talk a lot about in next week is the fact that your
moat as a business is going to be.
Primarily, at least in the re-ranker part is just going to be about the volume of
like triplet data you have that align with business outcomes and then which model
you choose is just, you just find a hundred dollars and then he'll tell you
that what the right answer is.
Dan, are the, are the videos for Chang's talk live now?
I think Matthew is just checking if there's.
Yep.
I'm pulling it up.
I'm about to put it in the chat.
So is that a video automatically uploaded to Maven or are you sort
of doing that manually right now?
No, everything is, there's a little bit of a delay for zoom to do some processing,
but it all is automatically put in Maven.
Okay.
Yeah.
At the end of the course, I'm going to like edit everything up and turn them into
like, like I'm going to turn the guest speaker videos into YouTube videos and
folks can just check those out there.
But yeah, I was very surprised that Colbert V3 app performed,
Coheer V3 app performed Colbert.
There is a nuance though, I think, which is that Coheer V3 would suppose that you
are both using a cosine search first and then using Coheer to rank it.
Whereas I think with the Colbert model, you don't need cosine distance, right?
Is a single API call.
And so I think you benefit a lot from a latency trade-off, right?
But do you need a GPU to run those models or it runs on CPU as well?
I think those are just latency trade-offs.
Like, yeah, cause I mean, yeah, like, like this is like a terrible answer.
Cause I really don't know if you, I think what that really is saying is like,
could you get under 300 milliseconds of latency with a CPU?
That I don't know because the embeddings and doing the brute force calculation,
I think are two separate tasks.
And so, yeah, like maybe you rarely need CPUs to do that the K nearest
neighbors search, but with enough data, you might want to use a GPU to do the
embedding and so there's a, there's a separation there, right?
And one more thing that was bothering me was like for Colbert, you need both
the question as well as, so how do you retrieve those documents?
Is it like you, you do a vector search on those documents and then give
it to the Colbert model or?
I don't know the full implementation details to give you a good answer.
I think that I think that's definitely like an Omar or Ben question.
Got it.
Yeah.
But yeah, I think there's just like every, every query is multiple vectors
and you're just like chunk vectors.
And then you interact them at the end and this interaction just basically says
that like a vector model is unlikely to ever be able to figure out the difference
between I love coffee and I hate coffee because like they're kind of averaged
out of embedding vectors, whereas cross encoders will be able to detect that.
If you have training data that suggests that those two are different things.
And so the coherent rankers and Colbert both will be able to figure that out.
The only difference is I think the Colbert vector search is a single call that gets
you like a single set of results, whereas with coherent ranker, you're likely going
to have to use vector search first to subset it and then do a re-ranking.
It's like a small nuance, but, but again, to me, that's just like precision recall
latency for some compute dollars per hour.
And I just have to like make a sacrifice because obviously I think collect
re-ranker V3 probably takes like 500 extra milliseconds and costs a couple of
cents, a couple like fractions of a cent per comparison.
And so there's like real reasons why you still might choose the model with lower
performance. I think those constraints are very specific, right?
Like you might find that if you can save 300 milliseconds, satisfaction goes up
more than the satisfaction that would have gone up if you had like 5% more recall.
But unfortunately, those are things we have to A-B test.
The other thing I might add and Dan, I don't know if you know about this too.
I don't know if there are like easy ways of hosting Colbert.
It's like Quadrant, Quadrant and Vespa have one, but I don't know it.
Like, I don't know if it's like easy to, to host.
Yeah.
I don't know anything about that.
Yeah.
Like, like you can't, I know, like you can't do that with like ChromaDB yet.
I don't even know if you can use Colbert for LansDB.
So there's other trade-offs of now I have like a full text index, then I have my
data storage index, and then I have my vector index.
And then you like break a config file or ETL goes wrong.
All of a sudden there's like a million documents in open search and like a
million and six documents and vectors.
Like there's a lot of other things you make decisions on.
I think Bito had a question first, aside from Lansy, if I recall storage is a
concern, I need to catch up on the talks, but if I recall correctly, storage
requirements for multi-value vectors are a lot larger.
Yeah.
This is a great comment that I tried to push Chang to answer in Lansy B,
which is that because things like LansDB have their storage back down, like S3,
I think like cost is cheaper.
Right.
And one of the things too is because if you use something like open search or
something like pine cone, all the data is persisted, like in the instance.
And so oftentimes to have resilience, you need to then have multiple instances,
which means you end up paying like dollars per gigabyte times three,
just to have reliability.
And so there's definitely some trade-offs you have to make there as well.
Whereas because it's on S3, like you might have a higher cold start when
you actually create the instance, as much of other trade-offs as well.
Generally, I think storage is pretty cheap.
I don't think it's like the biggest concern.
That said, I think, I think like pine cone instances will just like, like
instances that would cost you $4 on like TurboPuffer and LansDB could cost
you like $100 on pine cone.
If I above, I feel like I don't know if I'm pronouncing your name correctly,
but just let me know.
Okay.
Close enough.
One more quick call out.
So pine cone has recently released, well, it's architecture and you can save
the data set on S3 and then it pulls the data and you have to be able to.
That problem is not as much, but we are planning to migrate to that.
So like some of our use cases.
So yeah, yeah.
Go on.
I was going to switch topics.
So I wanted to say you can complete it.
Wait, I don't know if I heard you correctly.
I'm going to switch topics.
I wanted to say you can complete it.
Oh yeah.
I would love to know what your like cost savings are when you go to serverless.
Cause I think I've still heard a lot of complaints, so I'm really, I'm really curious.
So we are not planning to switch for cost actually, but planning to switch for scaling.
So the scaling that the cards allow us is not good enough.
So what happens is we have like these post-its and those patterns like end up
throttling the entire system whenever.
So that's when you're thinking about serverless so that it can scale up as
best of infrastructure so that we don't get stuck with the latency and latency
for other purposes.
What was the follow up question?
I also wanted to ask what are your thoughts around leveraging like out of
the box retrieval systems, like snowflake has its own cortex retrieval system.
No click search or something.
Then they do the hybrid search plus the re-ramping.
You and the latency over there is much better than doing it on our side because
of the fact that they do it all on the database itself.
So that read off how much is it worth to have it on our side, just
leveraging something on the board.
Yeah.
I mean, I like Lansky and I like Postgres for the same reason that the compute can
be closer to the database.
Like I don't really have any sort of big concerns.
I haven't gotten to a case yet, except for like title boosting where I
needed so much control that if I was only able to like twist a knob within
the database, I could get like much higher performance.
Like that has not been the case so far.
And so I don't really have much thoughts about it.
Like just being able to have hybrid search already is so good.
The only instance that that was an issue was when I knew many users knew the type,
the file names of doc, Google docs they were searching for, and they would search
basically like a one to one file name and we would not be able to find the results
unless until we did full text search explicitly on a normalized version of the
file name, then we're like, okay, can we just like wait the title boost by two?
If that's the case.
But outside of that, like I haven't seen any examples where it's like, oh, if I
only change like the K parameter and BM 25 to be like seven, I would get good
results that I haven't seen that.
Yeah.
Like generally I'm not against using frameworks.
I think it's just a matter of like speed of development versus control and how big
the team is, like if you're working with like seven Python developers, it might
just be way easier to communicate if you use something like Lanchi and Lama index
because those are some constraints that you can make sure everyone on the team
writes code that looks the same.
We struggled with that actually a lot.
We didn't want to have to say we built everything into it.
It's like, there is a lot of private knowledge.
So it's very difficult for anyone else to come in and contribute on that.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
Like I built the recommendation and search frameworks at, at StitchFix my
previous company, but I kind of did that knowing that like I would one be the
villain and two, everything would be my fault, but at least like worked at the
company, right?
I think the danger is when you then use frameworks that are like also
changing very quickly.
It's like hard to blame anyone because you're not even like paying them.
So I think it's like, yeah, it's, it's, it's tricky on both ends.
Like I think, yeah, like one of my clients uses like Lama DB, Lama index.
And like every eight, like every eight weeks, we take one week off to migrate
to the newest version of Lama index.
And that is like real cost, right?
Or like a new model will come out, but the Lama index code has an assert on the
model name and the model name won't be in the assert string.
And so we can't test a new model until we upgrade Lama index.
And then all of a sudden we realized like, oh, like this now broke some
retriever.
And it's like, yeah, like every six, every six, seven weeks, we end up having to
migrate code.
But that said, this engineering team would not have built their own like rag
framework, right?
So there still might be time savings, right?
Because now we just have two people building out like six different retrievers.
We put them on the router and it works.
A lot of the work we had to do was because of the fact that we wanted to
communicate as fast as the user.
So we need to plug inside the tool and write a lot of our own, which made it
very hard to like figure out what to do with Lama index.
Like it has so many layers of abstraction.
Now you need to know each layer in order to actually modify the things you need to
modify, which was a very big thing for us to start from scratch.
Yeah.
I think, I mean, my belief is any framework should have at most three
levels of abstraction.
Like if you click command, click three functions, you should be just in like
standard library code.
Cause yeah, I think like for all, most of these frameworks, it's like, it's pretty
hard to own the prompts and it's pretty hard to own the async loop.
If you know, you want to do some kind of like either asynchronous code or
multiprocessing, it's like, how do you decide whether or not you want to call
your tools in parallel or not?
Right.
Those are the, or like rate limiting.
I think those are like small things that are a little bit harder to reason about,
but yeah, Dan, I would be really curious to do a survey on like what frameworks
everyone is using and what tools like, and even languages, I doubt like 90% of
the people here are writing Python, let alone from scratch.
A couple of ways we get, I'll set up, I'll set up a survey.
That'd be super interesting to see.
Yeah.
Cause yeah, I've had more people come to me for help on moving out of frameworks,
but it is usually a lot of work.
Right.
But it isn't the only, you only do once.
We have been getting pushed back to move to a framework instead, because that
was standardized from the beginning.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Again, it's like, it's, I think it's definitely got grass is green
here on the other side thing.
So I see you keep pushing.
You should not have built it yourself.
One specific decision I like to look at is whether or not we want custom UI.
It is like pretty annoying to prompt.
It's pretty hard to control the prompts.
And so the more we care about the output format and the shape of the data and how
we think about streaming to front ends.
I think that's where we get like a little bit more complexity than we care about.
Like, I just remember like wanting to change the word assistant to the word like helper.
And this was like seven abstractions deep.
And I was like, okay, I can't, I can't figure out how to like rename
the name of the assistant.
Those are some, some small challenges that kind of like escalated.
Yeah.
We have like a lot of abstractions just for sending data to our platform.
So yeah.
And those don't get fixed.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mostly just use server side events.
I know we're at time, but are there any other questions or things you
folks wanted to follow up on?
Sweet.
All right.
Please check out the like mid session survey that Dan sent out.
It should be in your emails, you said.
And yeah, as always, just ask any questions on the Ask Constructor channel.
And we'll do our best to answer really quickly.
Cool.
All right.
Take care.
Thanks, Ed.
