Just a quick introduction.
I'm Jerry, co-founder, CEO of Lama index.
And then I'll talk about what Lama index is in the next slide.
You might've known us as like a rag company, especially from the open
source days back when we started in 2023.
Since then we've evolved our messaging a little bit and Lama index.
We think is basically we want to position it as the most accurate, secure,
and easy to use way to build custom knowledge agents over your enterprise data.
We're one of the leading developer platforms and communities for
drowning.
I were used by companies like Rakuten, KPMG, like Samax, Salesforce and more.
All right.
Let's get started with just like some high level, like a macro perspective.
We are really excited about agents, but actually specifically about
this concept of knowledge agents.
And so what we're really excited about is the fact that a lot of unstructured
data has been locked up within different enterprise companies, when different
data silos in file formats, like PDFs and PowerPoints, it's usually created by
humans, shared by humans, and then also consumed by humans.
So for the first time, LLMs have the capability to actually automatically
inhale and just read all this information from unstructured data, and then use that
to basically translate into insights and also action taking.
And what we're really excited about isn't necessarily just rag chat bot, but also
like deeper knowledge automation.
So I would characterize the last two years as people were building like
simple rag chat bots in production, just chat over any type of data.
And the typical like orchestration algorithms you're using with LLMs
would be quite simple.
And the end result is that you basically give like a little bit of a glorified
search engine to a knowledge worker for them to use, which is still useful.
But I think really the opportunity here is to basically create these agentic
workflows that can do multi-step reasoning analysis and in general lead to
like greater efficiency gains for like basically knowledge workers
in different fields.
And so some of the form factors of what we're actually excited about include
like document research, extraction, processing, and report generation.
More on that in just a bit.
I think if you think about some of the technical capabilities, I mentioned this
like a simple chat bot prototype might have like smaller scale data, simple
user tasks, like not a super high accuracy bar, you might be asking very
simple questions over the data and it generally gives back the right result.
I think what we're seeing the world evolve into is basically these more
advanced agentic workflows that can read across diverse sources of data, actually
take actions on it, do multi-step reasoning, train of thought, and then
also like some innovative UXs that are extensions beyond like the simple chat
bot.
And in terms of just two high level categories or two high level components
of the stack that you might need to basically build these types of use cases.
One is some sort of actually like a knowledge management layer, the ability
to centralize process and parse all your data and make it available in a format
so that all agents can access it.
And then the second is of course, like agent orchestration.
We have an open source framework that we are defining as an agent framework.
I'm sure you're familiar with like other agent frameworks out there too, but
basically there's like a set of tools where you just DIY yourself to basically
build a set of different agentic workflows over your existing data to
basically ship some of these use cases I mentioned on the right.
Here's just like some high level pain points that we've seen across both
like developer teams throughout the enterprise, as well as like both from
an individual developer level, as well as like team level.
One is some of the pain points actually shift to production include like
inaccurate data, and this leads to the garbage and garbage out problem, where
if you have like bad quality data, it's like your data is not parsed correctly.
It's not indexed or stored.
Then it leads to your LLMs can't really reason over it, even if the LLM reasoning
capabilities are very good when this leads to bad end to end accuracy.
There's also generally like a lack of consolidated agent architectures to
build and ship some of these use cases.
I mean, especially once you get to the team level, especially we talked to some
of these like very large traditional enterprises with just like generally a
lot of people, but you start thinking about just organizationally, if you
have a large Geni team, can you actually employ that developer team to ship
multiple use cases very quickly and have a centralized architecture so that they
can all build off of it instead of reinventing everything from scratch.
This goes into kind of three high level components of this talk, which is
to build an advanced knowledge agent.
First, I'll talk about like high quality knowledge management and just that
layer and what that means, we'll talk about some of the stuff that we have.
And then also things that are on the roadmap.
Number two is agent orchestration and deployment, which is basically just
a run through of how we think about orchestrating agent workflows.
And then also how you can use that to build different types of applications.
And that three is actually deep diving into certain use cases and walking
through some example architectures to actually build these use cases.
So to start with, we'll go into high quality knowledge management.
If you've known us for basically the past year, you've seen that we're
very passionate about unstructured data and especially what we call complex documents.
So a lot of documents can be classified as complex.
They can have embedded tables, charts, images, and then they can have regular
layouts that they can have headers and footers scans.
Some tables that we've seen across earnings reports, forms can basically
just be really complex in nature and actually just figuring out how to
extract that in a way that's interpretable both by human and as well as
a machine can be a pretty challenging problem.
And I think we set our sights on actually tackling this first back when we first
started working on some aspects of our commercial service, but basically this
is one of the first components of what I call a knowledge management layer.
You need a good document parser basically.
And basically you need a good document parser that can actually understand
the content within the documents enables you to then extract out structured
information into a standardized schema.
This needs to be robust across different document types can handle.
There's a long tail of different issues across most like human creative file
formats, and then also feed it into some sort of downstream workflows, whether
you're trying to ETL it into snowflake, or you're trying to index it into a vector
store, and this is just a high level sketch of what we see as a knowledge
management layer connect to some sorts of data, do some parsing extraction,
and then also indexing, maybe diverging from the slides just a little bit.
I think, especially with the advent of VLMs that can also do
multimodal indexing and retrieval.
There's an interesting kind of combination of both techniques that you can use where
instead of just like parsing a document into text, and then also feeding that
through a text embedding model and putting it into a vector store, you can also
screenshot the page and then feed it through some sort of either image
embedding model or some late interaction model store that, and then put that into
some storage system and do retrieval from it.
You can do that.
I think we actually do some of that in our commercial service too.
And in fact, I think we probably do both.
There's challenges to actually figuring out like the right fidelity of
screenshots actually take when you're dealing with documents of that complexity.
But there is obviously a lot of interest in using multimodal
LLMs for parsing and extraction.
We have the service called LamaParse.
We launched it last February.
There's companies that use it.
This is part of the credits I think we gave you as part of this course.
So I think we gave everybody some number of credits to use LamaCloud,
which includes the parsing capabilities.
So if you have pretty complicated data, I would throw it out LamaParse and see how it does.
Here's just running through some example use cases with LamaParse.
And so one, this is a pretty basic example, but this is just running
through an example, like 10K document where, you know, I'm going to go into this right here.
Like this is just like the Apple financial filings, right?
So if you go into an example of this PDF, you can see, I'm sure many of you
have seen these types of docs, but there's a bunch of text.
There's like charts right here.
There's also like tables.
And so what we do is we are able to, uh, the tables and to all structured markdown
like this, and if you build a rag pipeline over this type of data, we're actually able
to give you back like the right answer because our lens generally have the ability
to interpret markdown tables as long as they're formatted correctly.
The issue with most off the shelf parsers is that they don't format them correctly.
If you look at the baseline, this is where, if you ask about like deferred
state income tax, et cetera, like you've got the wrong results in the baseline
versus like the rag pipeline that actually uses LamaParse.
Another basic example here is just being able to build like a multimodal rag
pipeline over like a slide deck.
I'll run through the data in just a bit.
In this example notebook, what we did was basically do this technique called
contextual retrieval, which was a technique proposed by Anthropic.
They popularized the name, but the core idea is very simple.
All they do is for every chunk of a document generate like a contextual
summary that takes into account that chunks positioning relative to the entire document.
And in this case, we use LamaParse or like the parsing module to actually process
all the information within the slide deck into chunks per page, even if you
have like graphs and charts, you're actually able to process that into
well-parsed text, then you actually generate a contextual summary
for every chunk of that page.
What we do is after you generate like this text chunk for every page,
you also screenshot the page.
So you have both the text and image chunks.
And then you like jointly link them together and create like some sort of
embedding based off of that joint representation.
So then during retrieval, you actually fetch both the text chunk as well as the
image chunk, which is the screenshot of every page of the slide deck.
And then you feed it to a multimodal LLM.
And in general, like I think there will be more and more rag pipelines where
you're not only, again, generating a bunch of metadata on text, but you're
actually combining it with an image representation of the page and using that
to basically create more information content that the LLM can use to reason
to better answer the question at hand.
There's notebooks linked in all of these examples.
I think if I go into this one right here, okay, this is the iconic report.
Anyways, basically I'll just go screenshot.
You can see an example of a slide deck is basically this.
It has bar charts and the, you're dependent on some sort of like document
parsing technology to actually process this in a way that's like ideally well
formatted in a good reading order.
So then you can feed it to any sort of LLM.
And of course, screenshotting this page is also the way to basically
maintain full information fidelity.
And if you're uncertain about it, you could just do text
parsing and then also screenshotting.
In general, I think there is a certain set of use cases within certain
industries that depend heavily on being able to use LLMs on top of really
complicated data, but I think some data types include just in general slide
decks, which tend to be very visual in nature and have a lot of charts.
Approach that we've consulted with other companies is being able to
parse those documents and to parse text.
And then also being able to generate screenshots of those pages.
Number two, being able to process common public filings, like annual reports.
Number three are Excel sheets, which I acknowledge, I think we have a basic
version for this in LLM parts, but it's still a work in progress.
Excel is super complicated.
I think it's basically some combination of a semi-structured 2D representation
of something, but also you can have multiple tables for every sheet.
They don't necessarily need to align in the same position.
And that's something that we're dealing with as a problem.
And hopefully we have some feature releases on that soon, but also forms.
There's many different types of forms and questionnaires where you like fill
in like a line or a box and be able to parse that into a set of key values.
It's also something that we do.
This is just like a general algorithm to think about once you like,
figure out the parsing piece.
And it's just like a simple algorithm you can use to basically do
rag indexing on top of any sort of a complex document.
So basically assume the PDF parser is pretty good and you actually get back
like a decent representation of every text chunk of where the tables are on
the page, where the images or diagrams are on the page, you can basically generate
like an intermediate representation from every single one of these elements.
So you can generate like an embedding.
And there, you can do that in a variety of ways for text chunks.
So you just feed it to a text embedding model for tables.
You can also feed it to a text embedding model, or you can feed it to an LLM first
to generate like a summary of the table and then feed that to a text embedding
model for diagrams or images.
And you can use a multimodal LLM to generate an image caption or directly
use like an image embedding model.
That's aligned with the same embedding space as the text model.
And so basically then you end up with a bunch of embedding representations
and then you index those.
And then during retrieval, you obviously retrieve those embedding representations
and then you reference it back to the source element.
I think in general, I, we see a lot of rag pipelines becoming a little bit more
multimodal in nature as these capabilities improve.
So like the elements you're dealing with during synthesis are actually not just
text, but some combination of texts and also images.
Cool.
So that was like on the knowledge management piece.
I think in general, especially for this class, you have access to one cloud and
especially the parsing capabilities.
So I just play around with it and yeah, open to any feedback and questions.
And hopefully it actually helps you build some sort of
pipelines over complicated data.
The next piece is agent orchestration and deployment.
And so now that you have your data processed and set up, how do we think
about like building agentic flows over that data?
Uh, one concept that we basically came up with is this idea of what's
an extension beyond rag, and we just called it like agentic rag, which is,
but you have a rag pipeline where inherently it doesn't actually do reasoning.
You just feed data to a vector store and you're mostly using the LLM to
synthesize the information from the vector store to generate a result.
If instead you treat the vector database as like a tool that an LLM can
call through an API interface, and then you combine that with a set of other
tools that the LLM can also call.
Some of these other tools I'm sure you're familiar with, they include
like structured data, like SQL databases.
They include like web search.
They include just like generic actions of a calculator or something that you
might encode in a function, then you can separate like what the responsibility
of the tool is with some sort of like higher level agent reasoning or planning layer.
And so the concept of an agent isn't necessarily like super well defined,
but there's just like some general patterns that people have come up
with in that like agent planning layer.
This includes some sort of like general orchestration of how
that agent reasons through things.
Uh, I'll walk through how we think about those reasoning workflows in a bit.
But yeah, there's some ability to iterate through the set of actions to take.
There's also some sort of memory or state management.
And of course there's the ability to do function calling to actually call some
of these tools through an API.
But if you think about going back to the previous section, the knowledge management
piece is really structuring your data in the right format.
And then the goal is to basically create a set of really nice tools for an agent to
then use, then the agent is basically like the orchestration or planning layer
on top of these tools that can solve different tasks.
We have a pretty flexible definition of what an agent is.
And for us, it's really less about a single definition of an agent and more
just about something that's like a little bit more agentic versus less agentic.
Less agentic flows are things where, you know, as a computer program, you're
basically defining it with a lot of constraints, but you're defining the
if statements and while loops and conditionals and the overall control
flow of the program, and you're maybe using the LLM to make certain decisions
throughout that flow, but definitely not all the decisions.
So here is just an example where maybe you have an LLM powered router that
decides between two tools, but the overall flow is that everything will run to
completion.
There's like a linear, roughly linear sequence of steps, and there's not too
much like branching or other logic going on.
And so you basically have some sort of guarantee that it will complete
within a certain number of steps.
And then you have like unconstrained flows where you basically, this is just
the pattern of a general orchestrator agent with a ton of tools, but doing like
a function calling or a react loop.
And then you're both like giving the agent control over what tools to call at
every step and also giving it the control of like how long to actually
run for until completion.
And in that sense, you're like giving up like human control of the program and
really letting the agent decide for itself.
There are certain benefits to this type of approach and that was actually pretty
general.
If you just think about a general reasoning model, it has access to a set
of tools, it can basically just figure out what to do on any new task.
And so it can generalize to more different types of inputs, but of course,
there's concerns around like guard rails and it can be less reliable.
I do think over time as like reasoning models get better, context windows get
bigger and they get cheaper.
There will be a consolidation of agent architectures.
So that actually probably goes a little bit more into the space versus defining
like super custom workflows in certain settings.
Though of course there will be like space for both.
And I think one of the core areas of investment for us, besides like everything
on the knowledge management piece is actually agent orchestration.
We basically have evolved the open source framework into something that enables you
to basically build agentic workflows at different levels of abstraction.
I'll run through, I think some basic examples, but at a high level, it's
basically like an event driven system where you can decompose any sort of agent
to program as a series of steps.
Every step can listen to some sort of input events that come in.
You write the logic within the step.
So if it makes LLM calls, if it does some sort of conditional logic or reasoning,
or if it's just like regular Python code, and then you decide what output event to
emit, and then you can of course, compose different workflows together.
You can piece together granular workflows into higher level workflows.
You have the full flexibility at the base level to write whatever code you want.
And it integrates with some of the leading observability tools like weights and
biases arise and ML flow and so on and so forth.
And then we're also working on ways to enable you to deploy that into a
production service and the overall flow of how we see building an application is
you compose a workflow using LLM index workflows with some of the core components.
We have this additional project that we're iterating to make more production ready
called LLM deploy where once you set up these event driven workflows, you can
actually deploy them as a set of microservices.
They have full support for a human in the loop state management and also the
ability to like execute an async and then translating that into a full stack
application template here.
I know maybe this isn't the best a screenshot, but I basically tried to give
you a sense of what it's like to actually build a workflow from scratch.
I think maybe a better example is I'm just going to go into this web link right
here, where in general, the way a workflow works is you can just define like a
Python class that has a series of steps.
Every step can listen to an input event, emit like an output event.
And then here you can basically write whatever logic you want within the step.
So it's a pretty core layer of orchestration.
If you're familiar with like temporal or I guess like airflow, it's not that
dissimilar from it, but instead of like a graph based approach, this is very
much like event driven and the benefits there is that you actually don't have to
define a bunch of edges in the graph.
You can just write all the orchestration logic in every step and then just choose
which events to emit.
So basically the edges are implicit in the code that you actually
write within every step.
This is just like a starter tutorial.
So obviously this is like very basic.
This example right here is how you actually build like a full React agent.
So a React agent flow is something where you define a series of steps.
It takes in a message, does the react prompt to basically do train a thought
on the input, figure out what tool to call, and then it actually passes a
message back to the beginning to basically create a loop of reasoning until
it decides that it's actually complete.
So this is basically an example of how you actually build a full React
agent from scratch.
And it's also in our docs.
We started off with that base abstraction just because I think that is like a
pretty nice, like core layer for people to get started.
We also, I think started to recognize the need that folks have where there are
certain agent patterns that are emerging where, and oftentimes for certain use
cases, you might not really care about rewriting everything from scratch.
And so we're just going to create like some sort of higher level layer of
abstraction that makes it a little bit easier to think about agent as just like
a unit instead of you having to redefine the Python class.
And then this is actually like a higher layer, a higher workflow abstraction on
top of the core workflow stuff.
And this is basically like our multi-agent like orchestrator.
So the way it works is it's actually very simple.
It might be similar to some other frameworks that are familiar with, but
basically you have an agent workflow.
This is the definition that we use and it's our multi-agent orchestrator.
You can define a set of functions, give them to an existing agent.
So calculator agent, retriever agent.
And then you basically just, instead of you having to figure out how they
communicate with each other, you just give it to this agent workflow and then
the agent workflow will figure it out.
So you trade off probably a little bit of latency and control for just ease of
use and also the ability to dynamically process different inputs.
The request is routed to like the root agent.
There's some master agent.
It can then delegate a task to an existing sub agent, like one of these
agents that are described right here.
One agent can decide to actually directly hand off the task to another agent
instead of going back to the orchestrator.
And then whenever the task is fully complete, the final
response is returned to the user.
And so basically you just give it to a pack of agents, let it figure it out.
And then we give you back the final response.
That's some of the overview on the agent tooling that we have.
Uh, and now to put it together, we will talk about just like three core
architectures and actually around like knowledge agent use cases.
And I think a general theme probably throughout this course is just like,
how do you build stuff that's more agentic beyond the simple rag chat bot.
And for us, uh, again, the three core use cases are document research,
extraction, processing, and report generation.
I'll start with document research.
I think this is something that is basically just like the agentic rag
chat bot, but instead of being able to only answer simple questions, it can
do multi-step research over your documents, pull in the right context
to answer the user query.
There's a few elements of like agentic rag patterns that we find actually useful
and building something a little bit more sophisticated than basic rag.
Uh, more on that in just a bit, but some of the use cases that we see, especially
both among users and customers include like being able to do financial due
diligence over different types of documents, product documentation, search,
being able to have a search assistant for regulation compliance and also
customer support operations.
Here's just like an example workflow of building like a research assistant that
does a little bit more things than like a naive rag chat bot, specifically one
thing that we found to be relatively useful is to not just be able to retrieve
like specific chunks, but actually retrieve entire documents.
The reason is depending on the nature of the question, some questions actually
do require access to the entire document as context, uh, whereas some questions
are pointed enough in that you can basically find that answer in specific
chunks.
And so I think there's a set of different notebooks in the advanced rag category
that basically deal with handling these different types of questions.
In this example, what we do is we process the user query, do chain of thought on
the user query to break it down into smaller subtasks.
And then within a sub query, we have a router that depends whether to basically
do document level retrieval or chunk level retrieval, depending on the
properties of the query to make that router really good.
What helps is basically a few shot examples of both existing queries that
have worked as well as like snippets from the source data so that the LLM has
enough context to reason about how much information actually needs to help
answer the question.
And then once it feeds it to one of these two retrievers, then we can try to
either return specific chunks or like the entire document, synthesize the
results and get back a response.
The second use case here is report generation, which I think you guys have
talked about, but part of this idea is that instead of just getting back like a
chat response, actually using an agent to generate like an entire artifact.
Part of that, just like intuitively from a use case perspective, you're like
a knowledge worker, you're like typing on your computer with TragiBT, you're
still responsible for not only figuring out the right inputs to ask TragiBT, but
then translating the outputs into a final thing you're actually creating.
So what if the agent can just do that final thing you're creating end to end?
And that's really the direction that report generation is going for.
It can be actually relatively domain specific, but could generate like a
document, for instance, in healthcare, it could be like a clinical progress
report of a patient in engineering and product.
It could be like generating a PRD.
It could be generating like an RFP response, but it could also include
like filling out an Excel spreadsheet.
It could include filling out like a questionnaire and just making sure that
you're able to, yeah, address a set of context and then like output that data
in some sort of sort of structured way that fulfills like a task.
We have a set of example agent architectures that enable you to
basically build or get started building a set of different report generation
use cases.
And again, I think this somewhat depends on some of the core capabilities
around parsing extraction and then also building the right agentic workflows on top.
The first is multimodal report generation.
What if you could generate a research report that also that both includes like
text, but also sites, like certain diagrams and images from the source document.
And there are some examples here where we leverage the parsing capabilities
to make sure that you extract out the right text from the source document so
that you have the right context to write a research report, but you also need
image extraction capabilities so you can cite specific images or charts
within that source document.
And then the overall architecture is something like a researcher writer
setup, where you basically have a researcher workflow that is responsible
for retrieving the relevant chunks and documents, and then the writer that can
use the researched data to then synthesize a final answer.
There's ways you can, of course, make this more complicated with like
human in the loop and also have the reviewer self reflection step.
But the, this is just like a way for you to get started.
Another kind of interesting use case that we're working on with some customers
is basically RFP response strategy.
So being able to actually generate a response that adheres to like
guidelines outlined in an RFP.
So first you need some sort of parsing extraction algorithm to read like an
RFP document and then parse out some of the core requirements, translate those
requirements into a set of questions.
You can basically do some sort of like structured output extraction to
extract out some of the core clauses from these documents, get back like some
answers, and then for each of these questions in this notebook, you can break
it down, try to look up information from a knowledge base to try to answer those
questions, do some human in the loop verification, aggregate all the QA
pairs, and then generate a final response.
There's some other use cases too, which are interesting, just being able to
fill out like an Excel spreadsheet.
I think some of the patterns are similar, given some sort of inputs, like
process the stuff that you need to fill out, look up things in a knowledge base,
get that information, and then fill out like the final spreadsheet.
This is something that could be relevant in like finance, could be relevant in
basically any industry that requires like outputs and a bit more of a
structured representation.
And then I think the last category, which honestly is pretty related to some of
the stuff I talked about is basically just like more general architectures that
can automate like document workflows.
I think when we think about like certain use cases here, we think about basically
like a generalization of an entire industry that's centered around like
document processing and extraction.
So if you think about like an invoice processing software, that's an example
of something that we think LLMs are just going to totally transform.
But like for the first time, instead of crafting very like hand-tuned
heuristic algorithms for domain specific documents, you can actually just create
general agent architectures, assuming you have the right pieces in place that
can just automate an entire business process from existing data.
So some of the use cases include like invoice processing, being able to extract
out like line items in a standardized format, put it into some downstream system.
Like contract review, being able to give an illegal documents, the equivalent of
just like throwing it into tragedy, but actually grounding it in your own
companies, like regulations and procedures.
Being able to like process insurance claims in an automated fashion and more.
And so like a lot of, I would say administrative or back office operations
teams across IT, legal and more basically deal with certain types of operational
work that can definitely be accelerated with kind of high accuracy AI agents.
An example here is basically like contract review, given some sort of like
vendor agreement, make sure you can actually process, extract it correctly,
do some sort of extraction to look at like the key terms, for instance, in the
MSA and then ground it against your own, both company and also public regulations
and guidelines, this is where retrieval comes in and you have a knowledge base
that's indexed, maybe also have a structured database, you have an agent
that can look up knowledge from your knowledge base, pull back the right
information, and then generate like a final structured output to determine
whether or not it was actually compliant.
You can see through a lot of these patterns where if you think about
RAG as just retrieval plus like synthesis retrieval is still like a big thing.
And all of these types of agent workflows, but it's just like one
step in a multi-step process.
And so to some extent, a lot of these are basically just like generalizations
of what a RAG chatbot is.
That's basically it.
I, yeah, I'm happy to share the slides.
There's like kind of links to some of these notebooks there and happy to go
more in detail on any of this, but also I can leave time for questions.
Yeah, I think I have a link to the slides.
I'll just share them in the, in the notes as we publish these videos.
Are we able to see the Slido event?
Otherwise I can just read out the questions one by one.
Cool.
I guess the first question is, I think a lot of people want to answer this question.
What are your thoughts on the best methods to map relationships across
multiple sources and files?
I think a lot of time, a traversal is an issue.
Yeah, that's a good question.
To some extent, I haven't actually, I think there was like certain
techniques we use already, but I think general like construction of
a knowledge graph ontology is something that I haven't actually thought
super deeply about yet, and maybe this doesn't quite answer your question,
but I do think this is one example of something that's a pretty popular use
case, so give me one sec, trying to find.
We recently refactored our repo, so I'm trying to go into this right here.
This is an example of a notebook where it's not inter documents.
So it's not like mapping out relationships between documents, but a
popular request is to actually figure out like the right section hierarchy
within a document and assuming you first just have the parse text within a
document, you can go through every single page and basically extract out.
If that page contains like a section heading store that as like
metadata within each chunk.
So then during retrieval, if you wanted to retrieve like contiguous sections,
you can basically do a first pass retrieval to just do vector search on
relevant chunks, and then from there use metadata filtering to actually do a
second retrieval pass to basically try to retrieve adjacent chunks nearby
that form a contiguous section.
And that's actually an example of almost like how you can simulate like a
graph rag like algorithm to return like an entire like contiguous chunk.
I think the answer to some of these questions around like mapping
relationships across sources probably comes down to some sort of like
metadata standardization and then, and tagging, and then being able to
retrieve that in a contiguous fashion.
Sweet.
The second question is about evaluation.
So how can you talk a little bit about how your platform evaluates agents
and tools performance and the handled errors in particular?
Yeah, it's a popular question to be honest, but we intentionally did not
build an eval observability tool.
We do integrate with a lot of great partners that I can refer you guys and
weights and biases, length views, like, like Databricks, et cetera.
I think it's like a hard problem.
I think I don't have unique insights into it.
And I'm sure all these like eval providers probably have more.
I think some of the core things you basically need to do is to like the
general recommendation I have is just build the end to end use case, evaluate
that first before trying to break it down into sub components.
It's typically just a little bit quicker to iterate if you just
build the end to end thing first.
And then in terms of like how you actually measure the end to end thing,
the first thing you do is just have an Excel spreadsheet with
20 inputs and then just eyeball the results.
And then you can figure out all the base evals after.
The second question is the one I asked, which is how do you think
about ingesting data over time?
I think a lot of times, a lot of the folks here have issues where
data documents are changing, documents are growing,
yeah, things are being updated.
Could you talk a little bit more about that?
Yeah, for sure.
So there's actually two things.
I think the first thing that we do, and this is like the data pipeline
issue, the most common data pipeline issue is like when you do updates,
you don't want to re-index the entire files.
And so you basically just, what we do is especially in a lot of cloud,
like our commercial service, we store like the hashes of the documents
so that upon re-indexing, you can see if there's any files I've actually changed.
If they have shifted, then you basically just make sure that you propagate
like the updates and deletions.
I think that's step one.
Step two is sometimes there's like issues with permissioning.
And I think that's something that I think everyone can build.
If you had enough time, it's just annoying to build.
But for instance, like the permissions on the document can change.
And I think one thing there is oftentimes one, when the permissions
on the document changes, like for instance, in Google Drive or SharePoint,
then you oftentimes want that to propagate immediately instead of on a batch setting.
Number two is you also don't want to necessarily re-index the document
because the content itself didn't change.
It's just the permissions.
So you basically need a way to separate the metadata that actually like
changes the semantics of the document and then metadata that doesn't affect it.
And so if you can separate the two, then you can just propagate updates
to the metadata without having to re-index like the source.
Oh, I'd never even thought about this example where like permissions are changing
and things actually need to update in real time.
So again, you're just like updating SQL or updating something in like Dynamo.
Yeah, exactly.
You almost need like a separate data model for it.
It's actually annoying to build out because you also need to integrate
what the data source is for every data source that you connect to.
So it's actually an interesting problem because I think every enterprise company
deals with this.
Nice.
This is a question that I just get asked a bunch and so I'm really curious
what your answer is, but what are your thoughts on long context of a RAG?
I think most of the students here definitely already have an opinion,
but I'm curious to hear an answer from you.
I think if you have a 5-10 documents, you can just stuff it into TragiBitEa.
I do it.
I just use, I am an active user.
I pay the $200 a month for O3 and I copy and paste a bunch of text.
And then I try to get back the results.
I think what we're dealing with is basically just like your knowledge
basis where it just doesn't really make sense to upload like a million documents
into the context window anyways, for a variety of different reasons.
And also the UX like form factor isn't there.
So I think for us, it's really long context windows.
Fantastic.
It's great.
You can actually use it to do more things.
We want to use that to index like larger volumes of data.
That makes sense.
I almost feel like your answer here almost point to the fact that maybe for
consumer use cases and for more like hobbyist use cases, long context is great
because you don't have to think about RAG, but it is the case that in these
enterprise use cases, you need RAG even more because now you have a million PDFs
or like a hundred million pages of financial reports.
Yeah, exactly.
I think the other way to think about it is like, when do you actually
need like a search system?
There, as long as we assume there will be some need for search, then I think
there'll, a RAG is basically search.
I quit.
I guess one question here is what are the advantages of these constrained
workflows that you're talking about?
And what do you see that going as models get better and better?
Yeah, it's a good question.
I think I touched upon this.
I think more people are actually building the constrained workflows right now,
maybe just out of, because it's like easier to think about.
It's just a computer program where you add like a sprinkle and like an LLM
call for a specific use case here and there.
It's almost like a way to demonstrate like a POC of an agent for your boss.
I think as models get better, there will be more consolidated agent
architectures that can do more things in a more general setting.
The hesitation around fully adopting those is that historically so far, those
are harder to introduce like guardrails around and that they might not actually
give you back the results that you want.
I do think though, as models get better, there'll be more general architectures.
And actually I think, I know we have a low level of abstraction and that's
great for just like full customizable models, but I think that's a good
thing for just like full customizability eventually, especially as you even
get to like low code or like there will be a set of people that are totally
fine creating agents and like a high level of abstraction, but just like
some of the core capabilities.
I think this is a perfect transition because the next question is around,
are you seeing any successful common patterns that the companies are having
when it comes to scaling the number of agents that they're deploying?
I think, let's see.
It's a good question.
To be honest, not really.
I'm going to fully copy out this by saying like a lot of the production
customers that we work with are also like larger companies that typically
take a little bit more time to figure out the right pieces of their stack.
I think if you talk to AI startup in San Francisco, I think it will be very different.
I am seeing like emerging patterns around being able to actually
do governance of agents.
I think even from a VP or CIO level, like that's something that people are
concerned about just being able to actually track what's going on and making
sure everyone has full visibility into a set of agents.
I think deployment maybe is just a piece of that, being able to serve it via an API.
I think the higher level question is just like how do you actually track all
these agents and make sure they're working well and that they have the
right permissions attached to them.
I actually want to ask the third question first, which is you mentioned the need to
extract data from unstructured sources into a standard schema.
Do you tend to see these people using things like standard SQL instead of
these more like no SQL databases?
Yeah, there are for sure.
I think, yeah, how do I say this?
Yes.
Basically there's a certain class of use cases around like document
extraction, where instead of like vector indexing on the semantics, it's more
about normalizing the data in a certain structured format and then putting that
into some sort of like data warehouse.
In general, I think there'll be a need for both like structured and also like
semantic search and the agent should have access to both.
I see.
For an example in manufacturing or like very like hard tech focused companies,
you have these like technical data sheets and specs and you need to
extract out the data from those data sheets into some sort of like standardized format.
And then let's do maybe one last question before we wrap this up
just so I know where to go.
How do you think about this agentic rag system and whether or not it's
worth the added complexity versus this like naive rag?
I think most people, I think in terms of like value to the use case, like the
value to the end user, I think more people are just doing agentic rag.
I think every default chat interface is effectively agentic in nature.
Anyways, if you ask a question to O3, it basically does train
a thought under the hood.
Now I think that's almost like a baseline of expectation from the user.
I think the issue with just doing naive rag is that it like the end user will
inevitably ask questions where it's getting back not the right results or
an incomplete result and they won't be like super happy with it.
Let's also just do one more like live question before we wrap up, just because
I know I'm sure some people have a more complex question to ask.
Does anyone have any live questions before we jump back into the slide up?
Hey Jerry, thank you for the talk.
I had a question about where do you see the future of chunking going?
I think I recall Gina creating a very complex regex function to parse text
data, but it seems like a lot of the new chunking methods are using LLMs to chunk.
And a follow up to that is what do you think about augmenting the chunking
data that the LLM produces with Raptor with possible questions
that could be answered by this?
Yeah, just the trend in that.
Yeah, that's a good question.
It's interesting.
This might be a hypothesis and I don't really know if it's true, but I'm just
going to say it anyways.
I think a lot of chunking like the need to like carefully tune chunking is going
to go away because I think what actually matters is you can actually do a pretty
simple chunking algorithm, like page level chunking.
And then as long as you tag stuff with the right metadata, then you can solve
the issue of having fragmented chunks.
I illustrated a little bit of that in the notebook that I showed with
dynamic section retrieval.
But the idea is that you can start off with pretty basic chunks.
Let's say you just retrieve pages from a document and then as long as you
can do a second pass retrieval to then expand that context to then include a
contiguous context within an entire section or a document, then I think you
actually solve the issue of having a fragmented chunks.
I don't know if that makes sense.
The other part is that as context windows get bigger, your top K can just
increase and your chunk sizes can increase.
So then the retrieval performance will just go up or the synthesis
performance will go up.
Gotcha.
Nice.
Yeah.
So it seems like it's a good bet to test out LLM power chunking.
Yeah, I think you can try out simple chunking first.
And then as long as you tag it with the right metadata, you can always do a
second pass filtering after.
Gotcha.
All right.
Sounds good.
Let's do one last question with Christopher before we wrap up.
Hey Jerry, I saw that you also offer on-premise deployments for
Lama Cloud and Lama cars.
I was wondering what is your minimal business use case that you
require in order to offer this?
Because there are many clients smaller, but very interested in data
privacy and all that stuff.
Yeah, it's probably a better fit for larger enterprises.
And this is more a question around pricing and stuff, but I think we
deploy within Kubernetes, anticipate minimal document volume, and then
hook up to some of your existing systems.
It's typically offered for some of the larger enterprises with higher
doc volumes.

Happy to try it offline if there's interest.
Cool.
I would have one follow up question if I'm not mistaken.
Cool.
I would have one follow up question if I'm allowed to.
Yep.
So you, I saw you released a multi-modal embedding model, the
multilingual embedding model for...
Oh yeah.
And I was wondering what is your experience?
So how it compares to text only embeddings, because you always have
that option to basically turn a document into some sort of text.
And I was wondering if the simpler variant just uses the model is better.
That's a good question.
That was like a fun model we just released to the public.
The honest answer is I don't really know yet.
So I think that's for running those benchmarks like right now.
And I think if it ends up doing better than the text-based
parsing, we're going to include both.
Okay.
Thank you.
I think that just gives us two more minutes and then we can just wrap up.
Yeah, Jerry, thank you for sharing your knowledge and thank you for
answering some of these questions.
If you feel like there's any other good answers you have from the slides, I'm
happy to receive them and then share them with the cohort after, after,
after we publish the videos.
Yeah, no problem.
I just feel free to share the slides.
Let me know if there's any questions.
I hope that was useful.
And then if I didn't answer some of these questions, I know there's a few in
the Slido, just feel free to reach out and then yeah, thanks for having me.
Sweet.
Take care everyone.
