So hopefully we can make today's session as interactive as possible.
I know a lot of folks on the call are the one-on-one point of building
rag applications and many are already using brain trust.
So I'll skip a bunch of the kind of like overly repetitive basic stuff
and talk about a few fun things, show you a demo, and then I would love to
again, make this as interactive as possible and do some fun Q and A.
Just a little bit of background about me.
Prior to brain trust, I used to lead the AI team at Figma.
And before that I started a company in the prehistoric, pre-Chat
GPT days of AI called Impiro.
Jason was also working on ML in the prehistoric era at StitchFix,
which was one of our customers.
And we built AI software that extracted data from documents.
And at both companies, we ran into a lot of issues where we would change
something about our models or prompts or the data that we used and break a bunch
of stuff, and we had to get really good at doing evals to help make sure that
didn't happen.
And so we built internal tools to help us do that.
And then of course, it was really hard to find data to actually do those evals.
So we built more internal tools to find data from our observability pipelines.
And that eventually became the basis for brain trust.
A little bit about RAG.
And in particular, I'm going to show you what we think is like the easiest possible
way to create and evaluate a basic RAG agent.
But I think like one simple way of framing RAG is just an LLM with a retrieval tool.
And it's convenient because it allows you to like localize their RAG logic into a
tool.
Tools are quite powerful in and of themselves.
And it also makes them very easy and composable to test and use in other
applications.
So we're going to like, for the context of this presentation, assume that this
is what one way of doing RAG and what we're going to show.
So what I'm going to show today is actually how you can use one of our more advanced
features called the playground to actually test RAG.
I think a lot of the time you run evals, especially if you come from a data
science background, it's your natural inclination.
And I have the same inclination is to run them in code, but it's actually powerful
to run them in something like a playground where you can be very interactive at like
tweak the system prompt, see the results immediately run evals, engage non-technical
folks to look at the results, label data, et cetera.
And so we're actually going to show you how to do RAG evals in our playground.
So one important part of this is retrieval.
And in brain trust, this is TypeScript by the way, but in brain trust, you can define
tools in both TypeScript and Python, and you can call external services.
In this case, we're going to call the open AI embeddings API and pine cone as a vector
database, and you can wrap this up and then actually run a simple command, NPX brain
trust push or brain trust push in Python and publish this into the UI.
And I'll show you this right now.
Actually, when you do that, you get something in brain trust in the tools
section that is exactly that.
And you can actually play with it.
So you could say, this is RAG over our data sets.
I could say, how do I, our docs, sorry, how do I create an eval?
And I could say top case three and actually just run it.
And this will run this code, but it's running behind the scenes, not on, in your
own notebook or on your laptop.
Back to this, you can also define prompts in brain trust and those prompts can
actually reference the tools.
And when you do that, you just, again, run the same brain trust push thing, and you
get a tool, a prompt that actually references the tool.
Here's the prompt takes a question and you'll notice it's actually hooked into that
tool.
And so now I can say, how do I create an eval?
And it will actually not only run the prompt, but run the tool, pass the tool
results back to the prompt and then return a result.
Now the really neat thing is how you can use this to do evals.
And the first question is like, why should you, oh, sorry.
Why should you run evals in the first place?
Hopefully this doesn't require too much convincing.
I know Jason is really big on evals, but the first thing is that in rag, you can
have like very unpredictable error modalities, including repetitive loops,
hallucinations, and so on.
And the other thing that's rag specific is that you're involving a third party
system retrieval system, and that can have its own type of failures.
And so it's useful to actually test both of these things.
I also think it's useful to test both quantitative and qualitative metrics.
Qualitative metrics are sometimes called vibe metrics, but quantitative metrics
are things that you can very clearly quantify and test.
For example, if you have ground truth values for retrieval or for the final
answer, you can actually just test accuracy.
Obviously that's not always the case.
You can also test quantitative metrics like cost or latency.
I think in rag latency can be a big problem.
And so it's quite useful to actually check the latency trade-off as you're
making changes to your application.
But I actually think it's equally important to test qualitative metrics as well.
People really hate AI applications that are repetitive.
Maybe they have the answer correct, but they're totally painful to actually look at.
And so I think it's like equally important to actually characterize what you want out
of an answer and actually try to define the right user experience that you want
coming out of your application and try to evaluate that as well.
And the last kind of high level thing on evals, I'll say is that I think the lazy
approach is really powerful.
And by that, what I mean is one of the biggest failure modes that we see from
customers is doing like, how could I possibly evaluate this thing?
Let me set up everything.
Let me evaluate every possible step.
Let me ask Jason to write every possible question you'll ever ask my system.
And until I do all that stuff, I'm not going to do any evals.
Cause what's the point?
The reality is that I think evals are just as much of a process workflow and
structuring your development process thing as they are a quantitative measure.
And subscribing to the workflow of evals will help you iterate a lot faster.
And so we recommend a very simple approach, which is the simplest thing to
do if you're building a rag bot is to actually just use your application, maybe
plug it into something like brain trust to capture the inputs and outputs and
log them, and then save some good examples and evaluate the original input
against the final output.
And then as you actually change things and things break, try to find failure
points and then run like more specific evals.
So you might, for example, change one of the prompts or add a new question and
notice that the retrieval is broken.
And that's why the final answer is incorrect.
And when you notice that you might as well save that specific example in a
retrieval dataset, and then start to actually optimize the retrieval from
there versus trying to think about all of this stuff ahead of time.
Now I'll show you this in the, in brain trust in a second, but there's two kinds
of scores that you might want to invest in.
Um, one is code-based and the other is LLM as a judge.
There's some very spicy opinions on Twitter and whatnot about these two
different methods, and I think they have trade-offs like anything in AI or in
software engineering, and I think the best teams are really good at actually
leveraging both, and I would say at a high level, code-based scores are often
better at the more quantitative things that you might want to measure and LLM
as a judge is generally better at subjective stuff.
And we see the best teams that we work with generally rely on heuristics as
the North star measurement of whether their application is working or not broken.
And then they use LLM as a judge metrics as a way to provide additional context
and help them look at the examples with their eyeballs that are probably
the most useful to look at.
To give you an example, if you're someone like Zapier or Notion, you're
running at very large scale, you might have tens of thousands or more test
cases in your evals, but you don't always want to manually scan.
Let's say you run an eval and you break like 2000 of them.
You don't want to necessarily scan all 2000 of them, but if you use an LLM as
a judge to help you understand maybe why some of the examples broke, you could
potentially look at much fewer.
So let me switch over here and we're actually going to jump into the playground.
Now I'll just emphasize that everything I'm doing here, you can also do in a
notebook, but for a lot of reasons, I think there's some benefits to doing
this in a UI, like a playground.
I've actually just plugged in that prompt that we were playing with earlier.
And if I hit run, it will run the prompt and you'll notice the results are not
very good, the scores are not very high.
And I think that's because we didn't include this tool.
So now let me actually try including the tool and let's see how it impacts these
scores.
Sorry, there's a intermittent error as I referred to earlier that can sometimes
happen.
Luckily we can just run this example again in a moment.
Amazing.
And so this gives you an example of what it's like to actually evaluate something
in a more interactive way, directly in a UI like this.
And again, I'm not saying you necessarily need to do it this way, but I do think
that there are a number of benefits to being able to iterate this quickly.
And we've actually seen a lot of our customers, including some of the most
technical users at our customers move towards this style of evaluation.
I won't bore you with a bunch of more demo propaganda stuff, but you can do
some really interesting things like duplicate a prompt and then try tweaking,
try tweaking the system prompt and actually compare things side by side.
And so it's, again, it's a very powerful way to actually iterate on stuff.
And you can even do it if you're doing rag.
Sorry, I might've missed this.
What is the metrics like the context inclusion, factuality coming from?
Great question.
So these are actually three scores that I've defined within this project.
So factuality is a pre-built score.
That's actually part of our auto evals library.
And it is just a prompt that was created originally by open AI and it takes an
input, expected value and output, and then it asks an LLM to grade it with five
criteria, and then it maps those criteria to a score between zero and one.
The other two are actually scores that we created specifically for this project.
So if I look at context inclusion, this is actually a JavaScript function.
And this JavaScript function is trying to figure out whether the
context keywords are in the output.
So this is a heuristic that's basically testing that you can actually tweak this
again in the UI, you can play with it, et cetera, and you can also use it in your code.
So if you create it in the UI, you can dynamically run it from your code.
And then relevance judge is an LLM.
And so this is a very simple prompt.
You probably want to make it more complicated and more specific to your use
case as you actually iterate on it.
That lets you basically ask an LLM whether the output was
relevant to the original question.
Oh, thanks.
Is there a best, sorry, is one of them the best?
Do you, are you opinionated on what the greatest metric is to use there?
I actually think that you want to use multiple metrics when you're doing,
especially when you're heavy into iteration.
And what ends up happening is you end up starting to view one metric as the North star.
For rag applications, actually the factuality metric tends to work really well.
I'm not a hundred percent sure this is true, but I think because open AI uses it,
their models are also very good at actually executing the prompt.
And so we see a lot of customers actually rely on the factuality metric as the
North star metric for rag.
And what you can do is actually look to say, Hey, if factuality is lower on a
particular example than it was before, what happened to the other metrics?
If factuality is lower was context inclusion also lower.
And if so, maybe the problem had to do with retrieval.
If not, maybe it didn't have to do with the retrieval.
I think at first you slice the problem different ways.
And then eventually you start to intuit what the relationship between the
metrics is and as an engineer, you get faster and more efficient at actually
using the different metrics together to figure out what the issues are.
Jason, do you have a question too?
Yeah.
David just wanted to also see if you could show some of the quantitative
metrics, like the latency time to first token, et cetera.
I think.
Let me see if I, yeah, let me show you what it looks like from here.
You can actually kick off full experiments in brain trust and that will capture
like a very wide set of metrics as well.
Just because I don't want to screw with the demo gods.
I'm not going to run one of those right now, but I've run a bunch of them in the
past and let me show you what they look like for another project.
If we click into one of these experiments, you'll see the experiment view.
And this again was populated from a dataset and you get a bunch of LLM
metrics that you can compare at a high level, as soon as O3 came out, I ran
an eval of O3 against GPT-4.0 for one of our use cases, and it was pretty
interesting to see that even though O3 generates a lot more output tokens, the
cost is so much lower for output tokens than GPT-4.0 that it's still netted out
to be cheaper.
And so it makes it very easy for you to see stuff like that.
You can also click into specific examples.
So if you want to see cases that now have more output tokens than they did
before, you can actually click into those examples and look at the side by side
input and output and try to figure out why.
You can see here's the difference in output.
And of course you can also see all that information per LLM call.
And I think that's super important when you're actually debugging stuff to look
at the individual LLM calls and try to play with them.
I'll just make one comment before you continue, but yeah, I really love the
regression feature because it just means that across multiple runs, I can just
only look at the examples that are performing poorly.
If I can just like look at a hundred, think really hard, and usually you can
come up with a way of improving the system downstream, whether it's better
extraction, better retrieval or adding a reranker.
It's pretty great.
Yeah.
I used to back in the Impira days, when I first built the hacky version of
brain trust, I had a spreadsheet with a bunch of snowflake SQL queries saved.
And one of them was like, like a insane join that did the regressions
query and that was the main thing.
Excuse me.
I would use, by the way, when you collect all of these metrics across experiments,
you can also do higher level analysis.
So for example, if you collect the model name, you can just click a button and
then very quickly generate a model leaderboard.
Or another thing that Hamill, who's another one of Jason's homies clued me
into was it's actually quite powerful to look at the latency versus quality
trade-off with different models and try to understand where there are significant
efficiencies or inefficiencies.
So for this use case, for example, it actually turns out that O1 preview
doesn't perform particularly better, but of course it's much slower and you can
get a very quick visual indication of that by looking at a plot like this.
Are we ready for some questions or did you have a couple more?
I have just two really quick pointers I wanted to share.
The first is that we recently wrote a guide, which I would
highly recommend checking out.
And it's a companion guide to this Anthropic guide.
So I'm sure a bunch of you saw this.
Anthropic has like a guide on how to generate or create a bunch
of different agent architectures.
We wrote one, which is very similar and it follows all of those agentic
architectures and then has eval functions you can use for each one.
And so I think it's a nice starting point.
Of course you should adapt them to whatever you're doing, but it's a really
nice starting point if you're building an agent that sort of maps to one of these
architectures.
And then the other thing is just, I know we're going to talk about Q&A.
I really like this diagram that one of the engineers at Zapier originally made
about how they actually, what their development process is like and how they
think about the feedback loop.
So I'm happy to talk about this or anything else that you all are
curious about in the Q&A.
Sweet.
Let's jump into some of the questions on the Q&A and then we can leave it up to
more open-ended questions.
Awesome.
This is a question I tend to answer a lot for other people, but I really love
your answer here, which is when do I know it's time to just move from something
like a Google sheet or a Python notebook and like a CSV file to using a tool like
BrainTrust?
You know, I think it's probably, there's definitely situations where it's probably
too early, but yeah, when do you think it's the right time?
How can you tell?
I would say that there, there are probably two major reasons that you'd want to move.
And to be honest with you, I would encourage you to start by, if you are
comfortable writing Python, using notebooks, et cetera, I think there's a lot of value
in actually starting that way because it's a zero abstraction, no, nothing
left to the imagination way of familiarizing yourself with the problem of
running evals and thinking about data.
It's a good thing, I think, to do that.
The primary reasons that you'd want to move on, maybe I'll come up with three.
So the first one maybe is the most obvious, which is when you have enough
data, just the physics of navigating a large table in a Jupiter notebook or a
large spreadsheet can get unwieldy.
And I think for me, at least the breaking point tends to be around a hundred.
I'm probably a lot worse at pandas and stuff than people on this call.
I'm more of a TypeScript and SQL person myself.
And so I tend to want to look at the raw data as a table and interact with it
directly.
And so past around a hundred examples, I really start to struggle.
Maybe for you it's lower or maybe it's higher, but at some point, if you start
to feel like there's too much data for you to really have a handle on, it's a
good idea to move.
Another reason is that you might want to collaborate with other folks on the team.
And when you do, it's very useful to have long, forever persistent artifacts that
you can share with them and play with.
So let's say you actually go and run an eval.
I think it's really powerful to actually have a link to something like this that
you can just share with a colleague.
And then you can look at the results together, post it in Slack, take screenshots
of individual pieces of it.
And it's much easier to reproduce and play with than something that lives
ephemerally in a notebook.
And then I think the third reason, which is maybe the least obvious, but probably
the most significant is that at some point you're going to want to connect your
evals to data that you get from a production system.
And I think the most important thing that you can do when you're creating evals is
to develop a very good feedback loop from things that happen in production,
especially when people have a suboptimal experience with your application into
your evals and trying to connect the dots between your production observability
system, data sets that you can use that are reproducible for evals and then evals
that you run on top of those data sets.
That starts to become a very complex soup of scripting and ETL and storing
reproducible artifacts and so on.
And I think that is for a lot of teams that we work with that are tech companies that
would otherwise build software themselves.
That is usually the breaking point where they start using brain trust.
That's great.
Yeah, I would also say like one of the big things is in the beginning, it's pretty
easy to look at these spreadsheets.
But like one of the things we did with Zapier is really just get together like every
other week, do a screen share over the exact same evals that we see on brain trust and
just having a conversation about what people are asking about, what are the things we
need to improve.
And we might come to a conclusion that says, oh, wow, a lot of the feedback that comes
from using the Notion API is degrading.
Maybe this is something we can go and do a better data analysis into and figure out.
And those have also led to pretty good results.
This is a much more pointed question.
We are currently using Langfuse right now.
Where does brain trust excel compared to the other options on the market?
Yeah, I'm happy to have a more spirited one on one discussion with whoever asked that.
I as someone who works really hard on brain trust and respects other people who work
really hard on their products, I try not to say other I try not to say negative things
about other products.
I think that if some of what you've seen or heard today is exciting to you, then you
should try brain trust.
There are a lot of people that move from Langfuse to brain trust when they start to get
serious about evals.
And I would say that we have significantly more features like UI features, experiment
tracking features and so on around evals in particular.
And so if you're running evals and you already have written some code to do that, I would
just encourage you to try brain trust and see if it makes a meaningful impact or you
see a meaningful difference.
I think you will.
But the only the best way to do it is actually just to try it.
Cool.
Next question, feature requests anchored live stream using brain trust.
That would actually be pretty cool to see how you guys are using it internally.
But the next question is, are there many companies that are defining human aligned
alums as a judge?
This is something I talked to Hamal a lot about, which is it's one thing that you have
a prompt that kind of works.
But I'm curious how many people or how many sort of fine tune alums have you seen that
are used for this kind of judging work?
Yeah, I think that is more hype than reality at this point.
Like most of the problems that people are trying to evaluate, they do have the answer
might be difficult to characterize, but they tend to have a correct answer.
And I think one of the challenges with human alignment is that unless you have a really
good UI, UX and workflow that forces you to solicit enough data and keep realigning
things, you can use it as a crutch and temporarily overfit what you're aligning to
before you actually are forced to solve the underlying problem.
So we have experimented with it in our product.
And we've also worked with a number of customers who've implemented it using brain
trust and shared results with us and so on.
And we are at this stage not convinced that it is a great method.
On the flip side, I think that there is a lot of innovation coming with models and the
programmability of models.
And so I think that some of the physics are going to change over the coming months.
At this stage, though, I haven't seen it be a very compelling technique.
That's good to know.
On the other side of like human alignment as a judge, what are some helpful code based
scores for evaluations and can you provide some concrete examples?
Do you mind if I also give one that's pretty specific?
Yeah, please.
I've been working with a lot of different like meeting note taking apps.
And one of the things we care about is just summarization.
And what we have, what we found is for a lot of the earlier models, the feedback was
just that the summaries are too short.
Right.
And so a very simple eval that we had in the beginning is just what is the character
count of the initial summary divided by the character count of the total transcript.
And it was basically like 22%.
We were throwing a lot of information and it was very easy to just add up, add a
couple lines of a prompt and say, make sure that the summary is the summary
length is in proportion to the length of the transcript.
And it went to 35%.
And then we looked at the variance of that distribution and then started
prompting it such a way where we weren't trying to improve the percentage, but
just the variance of that percentage.
And those are just very simple tests to, to write.
Another one that we had was constructing action items and our eval there was just
how many of those action items were not tagged with a speaker.
And so it's one thing to say that this work will be done.
It's another to say this will be done by Jason.
And again, those are just very simple code-based evals.
It just tells us, are we assigning people to tasks if we're not why?
And are the summaries too dense or too sparse?
Yeah, I think so you bring up two very good points.
One is that I think people tend to initially assume that an eval is bad or a
score is bad unless it's a hundred percent.
And the reality is that doesn't matter.
Like really what you care about is when you run a new experiment,
how does it impact a score?
And so if you have a score or a heuristic like that, and it's 22% or 10% or 56%
or whatever, it actually doesn't matter because really what you're trying to do
is understand how changes will impact the score, not the scores absolute value.
And I think that's one of the things that is really important to grasp when
you're building heuristic scores.
Other examples that I think are quite useful are things like honestly, Levenstein
distance is a very popular metric among our customers.
It's incredibly imperfect.
One of the common use cases for Levenstein is if you're doing data extraction type
stuff, like checking that entities are equal to what you expect and Levenstein
might give you like 83%, but it might actually be correct.
And there's like a typo in the original document or something.
That's totally fine.
What matters is if you change a model, does it go from 83% to 50% or does it go
from 83% to 82% or 84% and so it's not really a difference.
The other point that you bring up is that I think code-based scores are good for
basically checking, they're almost like type checkers or like checking
invariants that ought to be true.
So if you're building something like rag, one of the useful things that you could
check with a code-based score is does the response include reference citations?
Maybe that's an important part of your use case and models, they will go awry and
they will forget to reference things depending on how you actually construct
the application and that's the kind of thing like maybe you're working on an
application that shows the references in the UI and that's a very important part
of the application that you can almost like type check that will happen by
using a code-based score.
Let's do one more question here and then we'll just leave it up for some live
questions.
If everyone can just see the react button, there's a like a raise hand emoji here.
So you want to just raise your hand for the rest of the questions.
Let's do that.
Cause I want to make sure we can get some live work.
The last question is just, I think you've worked with a lot of really great
companies like the notions and the ramps and the stripes of the world.
What do you see are the biggest like behavioral changes that they've been able
to make when it comes to working with evals and working with observability?
Like what do you think makes them stand out above the rest or what could just
every team here take away?
Yeah, I think the main thing that really good companies do is they take people
with great product intuition, not necessarily great data science chops.
Although having good data science chops is incredibly valuable.
I think there's no substitute for having good product intuition and they get those
people to stare at data and look at real examples.
And I think if you get people with good product intuition to look at real
examples of things going well, and you figure out how to scale that process,
then that is what creates an excellent AI product.
Because you want someone who has empathy for the end user to literally look with
their eyeballs at what the end user is experiencing and use that intuition to
improve the quality of their application.
Now, when you have three users and a small number of engineers or whatever,
you can do that without any evals or any, anything, right?
You just run the application and you'll see things that are good and things that
are bad.
But when you want to scale that to many millions of users, potentially using your
application, you need to use something like evals as a way to, in my opinion,
ultimately prioritize the time that your team spends so that they're looking at
the most useful examples and building the best intuition and efficiently testing
their hypotheses.
And so I think, again, like the best teams embrace that idea.
A Vitor from Zapier just did a session with us last week and he said that he
looks at traces for three hours a day.
This is like a staff product engineer at Zapier.
He's like a really talented software engineer and he spends three hours a day
looking at traces.
And I think that mentality and he's not just scanning through the logs, right?
He's looking at the right traces, but that mentality, I think, is what it takes.
Before we go into questions, I realize this one's probably pretty relevant.
Are you ready to talk about pricing at all or should we say that for a async thing?
Yeah, what I can say is we, I know it's been long awaited, but we are going to
release self-serve pricing pretty soon.
I can't publicly announce what I don't want to like preempt the team's
announcement on how the pricing will work.
But I think our goal is to make it very easy for people to one, to have a really
generous free plan and two, to get started and scale as their use case scales.
Matthew, do you want to kick us off with the first live question?
Yeah.
Hello.
Is this a little bit tangential to evals, but also related and
might be relevant to bank brain trust.
So I was just curious if you had any thoughts about auto optimizing prompts
with, for example, DSPY, is that something that if you see that as a promising, is
that something that you're at all considering incorporating into brain
trust as a part of writing experiments?
Yes.
Great question.
And I think what we've seen very much tracks what we've seen with human aligned
scores, I think DSPY is very exciting.
I personally don't like the syntax, but I don't think that matters.
It's a very cool concept.
And I think it's directionally the right framing for how to
create optimizable AI programs.
The biggest problem that we've seen is that companies don't actually have the
datasets needed to be able to take advantage of auto optimization well.
And so we are planning to release a bunch of stuff.
But I actually think that our primary focus is going to be helping you create
a really good flywheel of data specifically for the purpose of doing auto optimization.
I almost think of auto optimization as like the cherry on top.
Once you've prepared an immaculately good dataset that allows you
to optimize in the first place.
Awesome.
Thank you.
Just one quick follow-up question.
That was super helpful.
So when you say using your words, immaculate, an immaculate dataset, like how would you,
how do you think about what that means?
Is that just a purely qualitative?
We think this is representative or is there like quantitative ways of thinking
about, oh, this is a really good eval data set?
Yeah.
Uh, good question.
I think it's both, but specifically what I think, um, is missing from what is
available today is it's not creating the initial dataset, it's creating a dataset,
doing some kind of auto optimization and then witnessing the ramifications of the
auto optimization and using those to improve the dataset further.
So I think the really important thing is actually the feedback loop that allows
you to continue improving the dataset rather than any specific characteristic
about the dataset at a particular point in time.
And I think those observations are inherently going to be
both quantitative and qualitative.
Okay.
Awesome.
Thank you.
True?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So this was really interesting, but one question I had is I think the different
scoring mechanisms that you identified were really about correctness of the
response or like how you can identify or track correctness in your evals.
But like, is there, have you thought about incorporating this in a brain
trust or how do you all approach it in terms of integrating like customer
feedback or customer satisfaction of the responses being generated into your
eval datasets and capturing some of that real life feedback from customers as
opposed to relying on say a large language model?
That's a very core part of what we do.
So in brain trust, you can create a human review scores and you can
populate them through the API, which people often do to capture and user
feedback, and this will probably look familiar to you, like the most common
version of it is thumbs up or thumbs down, but you can also create like
categorical scores, so you could say missing the receipt or I don't know,
I'm just making these up bad audio or whatever, and you can save those as
labels instead, or you can save them as scores depending on how you want to
consume them, and you can also do stuff like capture free text input, and we
view the problem as twofold.
One, we think it's very important that it's easy to capture end user feedback
so that if you're building an application and you have a thumbs up button, you can
pull that into brain trust and then maybe also run automated scores and see where
they agree and disagree, that's a great way to actually improve the quality of
your automated scores.
And then the other thing is it's really important to have a good workflow within
brain trust for engineers, product managers, support people, subject matter
experts to actually label and incrementally keep labeling and improving data.
Matt, this kind of touches on what you were talking about.
I think we view the work that we are doing in auto optimization to actually be an
evolution of the work that we've done so far in capturing user feedback and
labeling.
Okay.
Sorry, I just know if you had something else to follow up with.
Uzair, am I spelling your name?
Oh, you're on mute.
Yeah.
Thanks, Ankur, for doing this.
I really appreciate it and what you build is very interesting.
My question was around computer use and voice agent evaluation.
We've just now deployed some computer use agents with our customers.
We have some voice agents and I'm really struggling to figure out what's like a
scalable way to evaluate them.
Right now, it's just a crazy manual process where we're just looking at like
the instructions, we're looking at the photos, we experimented with making like
GIFs and like humans looking at them.
Obviously like the end thing that happened, if there's an API on the UI, on
the computer use piece, and then on the voice agent, transcription is so reductive.
Like it's been missing a lot, like the intonation pauses, interruptions, et
cetera.
Would love your thoughts on these two things.
Yeah, we've done a little bit more work on the ladder, like voice than the former.
And I think like a few random things that we've tried, although I think it's very
wild west at this point, to be honest with you, is sometimes, I don't know what
APIs you're using, but sometimes the real time transcription models are dumber than
offline transcription models.
And we've seen some success doing evals where you use the smarter model offline
to generate a transcript and then compare it with the real time transcript.
And excuse me, that's a great way of surfacing interesting cases where the
real time transcription system is just not as good as the offline one.
Super simple things you can do.
Like you could do both transcriptions and then Levenstein them, or you could use an
embedding distance if they're wildly different to understand what the differences are.
And then I think the other thing that we've seen is converting everything to text
and then running them through a classic pipeline and then comparing the results.
So let's say you're building an agent that is a voice agent and it's doing some
rag behind the scenes, you might capture the original input and then the final
output from the audio interaction and then transcribe everything and take the
original transcribed text and then run it through a classic rag pipeline and take
the final output and then compare them.
And again, those are two different tricks to try to find cases that may be
anomalous that you can improve.
For computer use, we are early into seeing anyone actually use it.
So admittedly, we haven't done a lot of work here.
However, I think there's two exciting directions or it's one exciting direction,
but two different companies, I think that have done exciting work.
One is E2B and the other is BrowserBase.
They both have emulation methods.
E2B is obviously a VM and BrowserBase is for browser stuff, like operator style use
cases, and I think you can actually express the flow of computer use through both of
these methods and actually potentially automate some of the manual parts that
you're doing right now.
I haven't done this myself though, so I can't speak to it with a lot of
firsthand insight or credibility.
It's just probably what I would expect to end up working in the medium term.
Cool.
Yeah, appreciate that.
That's where we're at right now is just doing the evals on the actual intention of
the bot and the actual looking at the screenshots and what it did is very
manual right now.
Cool.
Thank you.
Are you emulating stuff or are you doing it?
Yeah.
So it's like not a headless environment.
And so it's yeah, but I think most likely just evals on the actual intention of the
instructions that the thing produces to do should probably get us there at scale.
Let's see.
Yeah.
I, again, I think the most important thing is when you're running evals is to find
anomalies, like the, especially with wild west stuff like this, if you're running
an eval over a thousand examples, really the only thing that matters is I only have
time to look at 10 examples.
Can this thing help me find the 10 examples that I should stare at myself or try to
repro myself instead of having to look at all thousand.
And if you think of the job of writing a good eval function as helping you find
those 10 examples, rather than an absolute metric of quality, then it might help.
It might help.
Yeah.
Just point it to some downstream thing that is easily findable and then go back
from there.
Yeah.
Sure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Again, when you notice something is broken, you're going to want to repro it.
Right.
Um, and you're going to want to play with it and tweak prompts and actually mess
with it.
So really your job is just to find those cases.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Amir.
Uh, Hey, thanks for the great presentation.
I had a question about online evals.
So right now the way we have our system set up, we just have thumbs up, thumbs
down, the regular stuff that everyone seems to be doing.
And then, so now we're spending time, not only just looking at doing offline
evals, just looking at data sets and just, just evaluating data sets by using our
eyes and the qualitative, qualitatively saying, okay, this sucks.
This is okay.
This sucks.
This is okay.
But now with online, now we're looking at user feedback, also doing the exact same
thing.
Is there any other signals that, that also help and yeah, any other strategies on
improving the use of time here?
Yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
I think I would suggest adding online score.
You saw the scores that we created in the playground.
You can actually run any of those scores directly on your logs or any of the
pre-built auto eval scores directly in brain trust.
And so I think probably obvious to you, but if you have offline evals and they're
reasonably good and they don't require ground truth values, for example, like
the summary proportion thing Jason was talking about, or something like the
coherence of a result, you can just take those exact scoring functions and run
them on a sample of your logs.
And then you've basically built a filter or a funnel of things that would do
poorly in your evals and you can just find them directly in your logs.
That's pretty simple.
Thanks.
Yeah.
I'll add to this too.
It's, it's also incredibly valuable to monitor this over time.
We've had situations where we've, we have a 70, 80% factuality score.
We onboard a whole new suite of customers and all of a sudden the documents dropped
at 65% and maybe initially we just see factuality drop and then we can do further
analysis to go, okay, it turns out that if actually dropped on February 4th, because
we actually onboarded these new customers and they uploaded PDFs and it turns out
all the PDFs are screenshots of like text.
And so something's going on in this process.
What's going on?
And now you can go investigate and figure out, okay, it's these customers uploading
these kinds of documents that now we can identify and we could only figure this
out because we just saw the factuality drop from 75 to 60 overnight.
And that is generally just a very helpful way of identifying what's going on.
Michael, you're going to jump in?
Yeah, thanks.
So I'm just thinking about the users of this, the playground and the system.
And maybe you could comment on different patterns here, for example, like just
looking at some very high level, very high level summaries versus drilling down,
like the guy you described earlier, who spends three hours by looking at the traces.
What's the typical use case here?
Yeah.
I think if you think about a healthy team of people that work on an AI application,
there's a lot of different people involved.
I think you tend to have some engineers like product oriented engineers.
You tend to have some ML or data science minded people.
You tend to have product managers slash designers who really care about the
user experience, but are maybe less in the weeds of technical details.
They also care about things like pricing.
So they want to evaluate on some frequency, whether you're getting the best ROI that
you'd want from the models that you're using.
And then you have subject matter experts like support ops, data labelers, et cetera,
who are very familiar with the problem and usually not very technical.
And some of our customers, I can't quote the numbers publicly, but there are like
thousands of humans at some of our customers who are using brain trust.
And part of, I think our job is to bring all of these people together into one
environment that, you know, it actually works for different personalities.
So the playground that I showed you, it's super unlikely that a product manager would
create the tool that does retrieval.
But once you create the tool, it's very easy for a product manager to write a rag
prompt and then actually just pull the tool in and use it and test some stuff.
And so there's a lot of those little things in brain trust that are designed to help
you navigate the necessary diversity of skill sets that go into building an AI
application.
I'll give you a quick example.
So we talked a little bit about review.
So if you look at an example of an experiment like this, where you can actually save
review information, this UI is generally something that like Jason would be very
happy to use and like it has all the numbers and all the stuff that Jason would
want to see.
If you show this to a support person, they're going to get very lost very quickly.
But brain trust has this human review UI.
You just hit the R key and then it turns into this much more simplified thing that
you can actually further customize.
And it's much, much easier for someone who literally just wants to look at this
input and the output and the ground truth value and then actually just label it
against a rubric.
And so I think we put a lot of work into bringing a bunch of different kinds of
people together.
Interesting.
Thank you.
All right.
Let's do one question with Navne and then we can leave the rest in the Slack and
I'll just invite Ankrit to make sure he's able to see that.
Navne, do you want to jump in?
I'm just new to brain trust.
It might sound a stupid question.
I just want to ask, so in the start of this tutorial, you run an experiment,
right?
So are those connected to a production ready retrievers or is there a retriever
that is specifically created in the brain trust itself and that run those
experiments?
That's the-
You can do either.
You can do either.
So there is an API support itself where we can just call brain trust and then
they run those retrievers and we can send those experiments to the brain trust
UI itself.
That's right.
Yeah.
Okay.
And when we run those experiments, is there a support for comparing different
retrievers like the semantic storage versus the hybrid search?
What works best and is there a support for that as well?
Yeah.
The idea with brain trust is every time you run an experiment, you're
trying something new.
So in this case, I'm testing using RAG versus not using any retrieval at all,
but it's totally arbitrary.
You can just test whatever you want.
And when you do that, you get a bunch of comparison metrics that you can use to
actually dig in and understand.
It's surprising that without using RAG, there's still nine regressions.
So this is basically saying I'm using RAG, but the answers are worse with using
RAG compared to not using any RAG.
And yeah, it's very, that's the whole point of brain trust.
Great.
I don't think we have any more live questions.
Ankur, there's a bunch of other questions in the Slido, but I'll let you,
LL, you take a look and see if there's any questions that you think would be
helpful for the whole team.
And yeah, I think on behalf of everyone, thank you so much for taking your time
to share this with us.
Big fan of the work that you're doing.
And yeah, I think that's it for everyone.
We'll let some thank you messages stream into the chat and yeah, we'll
see you guys on Slack.
Awesome.
All right.
Great.
Thanks everyone.
Good to meet you.
