Look across the 15 companies I've consulted for in the past year to improve
the rag applications, every single one has used a Cohere Ranker.
And so today I'm really excited to invite Alexander from Cohere to talk a little
bit more about how they think about building great rag applications.
When we pull back the veil when it comes to rag, but we're building a tool that
kind of puts everything together and lets you be as tinkery or as little tinkery
as you like.
I wanted to talk about today quickly how we think about rag complexity at
Cohere and what tools we offer to minimize that complexity for an end user
and really like iterate quickly on building successful rag applications.
And so in addition to just giving a brief overview of rag, which many of you
probably are familiar with already.
I'll also be talking about this tool we have in beta right now called Compass
that we'll talk about a little more and get a quick demo of.
Let's start with rag basics, right?
I've got a very simplified overview here of a typical end to end rag system, right?
Where let's say it's a chat bot style rag system where we've got a chat history,
we make a request, our LLM might do some sort of query transformation, hit a search
query against some information retrieval system, most likely a vector database,
let's say, in a lot of the cases that you folks are probably working on.
Given that retrieved information, that same LLM can use that to ground
its response directly.
And one thing I want to point out quickly here in this little diagram is one thing
that we are really bullish on at Cohere is grounding directly on sources.
So we train our models to cite directly from the sources that are provided from
this stage three here.
And that's just like this tiny little toy example here where we actually provide
like citations from document chunk one, two, and three in our responses, which
we think minimizes hallucinations across the board.
So moving on, let's talk about a very basic scenario, right?
So the simplest way you could do rag, because here this information retrieval
piece is doing a lot of heavy lifting, right?
Extracting away a lot of the customization and complexity you can have in rag system.
But in its most basic form, let's say you had a single document and you want to do
question answering over that single document.
What you might do is take that document text, chunk it up naively, let's say, into
the token sizes that would fit into some model like Cohere, rerank v3.
You then pass your query into the rerank model along with all of your chunks.
And you get a nice answer.
It's really nice.
That works for a simple case, like a single document, but we can start asking more
questions, right?
We can start asking questions like what if you want to do question answering over
multiple documents with lots of different file types, or maybe something even more
complex, like tool calculators, Python interpreter, right?
There's more you can do outside of just single document question answering.
So why don't we pull back the veil a bit here and take a look at what we can do with rag.
So I want to talk about the general schema that we see with information
trivial right now that's that goes beyond just the initial re-ranking stage and
works to not only maximize speed of response, I'd say, but also like really
focuses on honing down information to prioritize the most relevant pieces to the LLM.
What we first start with is as document corpora grow, we have tons of documents,
tons of chunks, right?
And we need to be able to filter that down to the re-ranking stage.
And so we have this concept of like first stage retrieval, which is
built around maximizing recall.
In other words, the goal here is given a huge corpus.
All we want to do is get the relevant information in some large top K, right?
We don't care necessarily about how it's ordered when it comes back.
We just care that we're pairing down, let's say from a million documents
to a thousand documents and those thousand documents are maximized for recall.
Right?
So they're, they are relevant to the query.
This is really great because it's faster production use cases.
We can like pre-compute indexes on before we actually do query time.
We also have like very efficient interaction in simple cases with like
dense vector retrieval, where we're really just doing like the inner products.
And there's lots of technology out there built around this kind of vector
retrieval, right?
Places like QDrand, Pinecone, they're all building optimizations around making
this type of retrieval as fast as possible.
Outside of this vector retrieval, there's other things to try, right?
There's sparse retrieval as well, which kind of works more on a typical keyword
matching objective, where that's something closer to TF-IDF, if you've
something like that, the M25 is another very strong, what we call like lexical
method to get this kind of first stage retrieval.
Dense vectors is what I was already talking about, where we have something,
some vector in some dimension, let's say a 1,024 dimension, dimensional vector,
where we're calculating some sort of inner product to get a similarity metric.
We also have some other technology like sparse neural vectors like Splayed,
which I won't go too much into detail about now, but if you're interested,
there's a lot of good papers out there discussing the Splayed method.
Anyway, outside of the drawback of, or rather these vector methods have an issue
about information compression, especially towards like a limited context window.
When we do this first stage retrieval, we need to be like smart about how we chunk
our documents to maximize like information interplay, because you can imagine a
scenario where you might have a long list of things that are exclusions from,
let's say like an employee handbook about benefits and the exclusions are this
long list that don't apply for your benefits, right?
If you don't chunk things up smartly, you could have one chunk that has your
exclusions with the first five items in the list where the next 10 items in that
list don't have any interplay between the fact that those are exclusions at the end of the day.
We need to be a little smart about how we structure information in this first stage
retrieval, but what we can do to like really maximize relevance to our LLM is the
second stage retrieval, right, which is re-ranking.
I think you folks have probably come across this already, but given the top K
chunks that we just retrieved from that first stage retrieval, we want to now do
a cross attention calculation where we're actually doing a direct attention calculation
between the query and the context of the chunk to surface an even smaller number
of extremely relevant chunks of information to the original query that are
also ranked in terms of the relevance as well.
It's really strong.
And again, like I said, if you're building a proof of concept, you can skip the
first stage retrieval and go straight to re-ranking because you don't really
care about speed.
It's not a production application, but generally these are slower, but obviously
much more precise since they're trained on maximizing this precision of
ranking information.
Additionally, we do have a constraint for neural methods, like neural
re-ranking methods that we still need to chunk information to properly bit that
information into the model itself.
But generally re-rankers have a larger context window than for
stage retrieval algorithms.
Let's jump into generators really quickly.
This is fairly straightforward.
Given what we get out of the first and second stage retrieval process, we feed
that into your LLM of choice and hopefully that LLM has been trained to
cite from sources and produce an answer.
One thing I want to mention quickly is RAG.
I think even as generator context length gets longer, obviously we've seen
context like get longer and longer.
I think RAG will always have a place at least in the immediate future, just
because of a few things that these are, there's more reasons than this, but the
two that I want to prioritize it is positional bias is still like a really
big thing in long context models.
There's some research around it.
Lost in the middle was a paper from a few years ago examining how placing
documents in a large context length changes the answer quality plus a lot of
other research.
That's a great paper if folks want to read it.
But generally the gist here is that given that you could pass in a thousand
documents into a large context length of a million tokens, but eventually there is
some loss of focus from the generator itself where in a RAG setup, if you have
this kind of information filtration system, you're always focusing on the most
relevant information and not adding distractors.
And then additionally adding chunks directly in some format, especially with
our models allows the model to cite directly from those chunks, which helps
minimize hallucination and also tie information sources directly back to the
chunks that were where they were extracted from.
Hey, are your RAG applications falling short despite using the latest
frameworks and models?
You're not alone.
I'm Jason Liu and I've helped a dozen companies improve their AI applications.
I've developed a systematic approach that delivers results.
If you want to check it out, join my free six week email course and learn the
techniques I use in my own consulting practice.
That way you can stop guessing at what works and measure what matters.
Just check out improvingrag.com.
So Compass is putting this all together, right?
Introducing a lot of this complexity, right?
When we pull back the veil when it comes to RAG, but we're building a tool that
kind of puts everything together and lets you be as tinkery or as little
tinkery as you like, but basically when we think about NJ and RAG, it's truly
a sum of all its components, right?
You have pieces you can modify and customize at every step of the pipeline
and then build your own setup.
You have to control that and that's fine.
Consource tools like Mama Index and Langchain have a lot of like really
great tooling built around this already.
And if you want to get started and if you want to tinker, that's really great.
Compass goes a few steps further where we basically provide all of these tools
plus a nice SDK wrapper and a good amount of secret sauce that we've been working
on internally to maximize this kind of idea of smart chunking that I was talking
about and which embedding models work best in which scenarios.
Anyway, that's the main gist of Compass and I'll just give you guys a quick demo
here and it is pre-recorded just because we're still in beta and I wanted to make
sure that everything worked properly.
The directory financial documents in the form of PDFs.
This could be anything from 10Ks, 10Qs, 8Ks.
The gist is that I've got a lot of financial information, across multiple
different documents, potentially even document types that I want to synthesize
using something like an end-to-end rag pipeline.
Now Compass allows us in one single SDK and just a few lines of code to parse all
of these documents in a bulk fashion using say VR techniques that include
computer vision models or OCR amongst other things and an indexing pipeline as
well that is obviously proprietary but involves things like lexical indexes,
dense vector indexes, parse vector indexes, really combining this complexity
we've already been talking about.
Why don't we take a look at the code that we might use to upload these documents?
As you can see, like I said, really simple, just a few lines of code,
let's say about 10, right?
And we use the Compass Client SDK plus the Compass Parser Client SDK to queue
both these jobs where we have the parsing step and then indexing step after
the documents have been parsed.
So I'm not going to run this code now because I've already uploaded it.
I do promise that it's quite fast in this batch upload setup.
Why don't we come back over to our directory and take a look at some
of the documents we have.
So in this example, I want to take a look at my ID.
Within 10Ks and we've got Item 8, which is where companies will often put their
financial information and Item 8 is usually the section of 10Ks that
people really care about.
In this case, for 2033, we've got revenue numbers for the past three fiscal years.
But let's say I want to look further back, right?
Let's say I want to look at something like 2018 and compare and contrast
revenue numbers between those fiscal years.
But notice that we also have a 2018 10K, right?
And similarly in Item 8, we do have this information.
And of course, I knew where to find this.
Most people who know how to read a 10K will know how to find this.
But for someone who's not well versed in 10Ks and doesn't know which of these
hundreds of pages to look through for this information, could be a really good
start to ask a generator in a RAG pipeline like Command-R plus where this information
lives, what this information is to get the juices to the library.
So why don't we come over here to Coral, which is our interface for communicating
with Command-R plus and Command-R.
And you'll see down here that I already have a connector set up to our Compass
index, and this is just one way we make integration super seamless with our
generation models, but I won't go too into depth about how that works.
Instead, why don't we ask this question we were just talking about, right?
Where we're comparing revenue figures from 2018 to 2023.
All right.
And let's see what the model says.
It's going to start banking and it should come up with a few queries to ask of this
index, and now it's going to retrieve from that index and synthesize all that
information into a nice little answer.
We've got our answer.
Like we already saw in item eight, we had that 36.4 billion number and then 51.4
2023, and the really cool thing about Command-R plus is it's trained to sighted
sources, so that maximizes clarity and minimizes hallucination, and we could see
exactly where this is coming from, which is really nice, but why don't we take it
a step further, right?
So like I said, we're trying to get the juice flowing and this was an easy
kind of lay-up question, but we might do something more complex where we really
want to dig into the multi-document reasoning capabilities that Command-R
plus and Compass is able to do.
So we might ask something like, what are the three main reasons that revenue
increased over the five year period?
And so Command-R plus is going to come up with another set of queries that it
thinks it should ask of the Compass index, right?
So reasons for Nike revenue increase 2018, 2023.
So yeah, now it's going to give us a nice little explanation of what it thinks
after reading a few of these sources on how revenue has been trending over this
five year period, and the same thing again, which is really nice about Command-R
plus, I'd say, is this citation component where we can literally look in and say,
okay, Jordan was mentioned X many times in the 2023 10K, which means probably a
pretty big component of revenue for that fiscal year.
Anyway, that's the demo.
I just wanted to get the juices flowing on exactly what we've been talking about
building up to in this workshop with kind of stepping out of simpler rag cases
where we might be doing single document question answering and really leading
into more of this complexity where we've got multiple documents that we want to
reason over, synthesize, and produce like meaningful content with citations.
I hope that was informative and I'll be happy to answer any questions.
That's the demo.
I know we're running very short on time.
I do have a quick, this will be very quick.
I just want to revisit what we were talking about with the original
diagram of how we view rag.
I want to talk about where this is headed next, right?
Where we can view the exact same structure, but revamp each of the actions
in that kind of flow chart to be much more generic.
And instead of working like directly with simple information retrieval, we
can turn this into any tool request.
Instead of query transformation, the LM will identify a series of tools that
it should use to retrieve the answer.
Right?
So that's, it could be a search engine, which is just the kind of original
information retrieval step, but it could be something more complicated, a
Python console calculator, any API, right?
Like a weather API or something.
Instead of just thinking about this as documents coming back, it could be
like any tool result and the same kind of concept applies where then we, the
model is still trained to cite directly from each of these tools that it
uses to get to the answer.
Thanks for watching.
If you liked that video, make sure to like and subscribe.
And if you want to learn more, check out improving rag.com.
We're going to talk about the foundations and not frameworks.
Over six emails, you're going to learn how to overcome absence blindness, as
well as how to fine tune language models, understanding diverse query types,
improving multimodal rag, and ultimately smart question routing and build up UX
that collects user feedback.
Just check out improving rag.com and fill out this quick email address at the bottom.
Thanks.
