This so yeah, just to set expectations.
This presentation would be pretty lighthearted.
It's meant to be fun.
We're going to leave a lot of time at the end for questions,
but I'm just going to give you an overview of certain things
to prompt those questions in your mind.
OK, this question.
So this was a presentation about common mistakes
people make with evals.
And specifically, I want to give you
a guide to wasting time, money, and resources.
I learned this from Jason, taught me this technique.
Evals is a really large kind of subject area.
It can be dry.
I don't want to just talk about, OK, best practices of evals,
how to do them, so on and so forth.
Let's make it fun.
And so to make it fun, we can invert.
And by inversion, we mean, OK, like how can we do evals wrong?
I think that is a lot more fun.
Let's get into it.
I'm Hamill.
Jason already introduced me.
You can find my website there, as Jason mentioned.
I've written a lot about evals.
And the reason I've written a lot about evals
is because this is where people tend to fail the most.
And it's not really about evals strictly.
Evals is just the how of making AI work properly.
A lot of times, people, when they're
building AI applications, they hit a plateau
because you're only doing, if you're just doing vibe checks,
people want to know, OK, like how can you go beyond vibe checks?
And evals is the central way for you
to put some structured approaches in place that
allow you to measure your application.
OK, what is the first step that you can use to really
to start failing fast?
And the first thing, kind of mistake,
is focus on tools, not processes.
I find that 95% of the folks that I work with,
when we start working together, they have this mindset.
And just like Jason, I do a lot of consulting.
And what does that mean?
OK, rag problems.
Instead of trying to measure retrieval metrics and things
like that, use a vector database.
You've already been beaten with that specific advice
throughout this course, so you don't need me to really
elaborate on that.
Need to measure progress?
Use off-the-shelf evals.
So a lot of people are using off-the-shelf evals.
We'll get into that in a little bit.
But using off-the-shelf evals is the wrong choice 99.9%
of the time.
Fine tuning without measuring, fine tuning models.
You don't even have to be using an open model
just like fine tuning open AI.
But without evals is a really bad idea.
Similarly, if you have accuracy issues,
instead of trying to debug that and trying to figure out
why do you have performance or accuracy issues
so the LM is not doing what you want,
just trying different models.
Just hopping from one model to the next,
it just doesn't work.
You're going to be spinning your wheels.
Similarly, agents not working, try a new LM framework.
If agent is not working, instead of using LandGraph,
try Lama Index.
Lama Index doesn't work, try something else.
And then lastly, probably one of the things
that drives me crazy is evals are a vendor problem.
A lot of people think, hey, evals, what tools do I use?
Should I be using Langsmith?
Should I be using BrainTrust?
Should I be using Arise?
What should I be using?
That's the first question that comes to mind.
That means you're in trouble.
Because it's not a vendor problem,
it's a process that you need to go through.
The vendor is not the solution.
When you focus on tools, not processes,
what ends up happening is you are going to be,
your life is going to look like this whack-a-mole game.
And this is my friend Greg.
And you're really not going to be making progress.
You're just going to be rotating around different tools
without really having a robust way to improve things.
Just to drive this home, this is a real quote
from a large Fortune 500 company.
And the CTO said, in my opinion,
the evals framework should be generic enough
to apply it to any task.
People actually believe this.
And if you believe it, stop it.
Get help.
Get help somewhere.
Get help from Jason.
Get help from John.
Doesn't matter.
Get help from somewhere.
So another kind of example is,
if you really want to hurt yourself
in really light stick of dynamite under your ass,
you should throw up a dashboard that looks like this.
Import your favorite LLM eval library
and use off-the-shelf metrics.
Calculate healthfulness score, truthfulness score,
personalization, accuracy, tone, put it on a dashboard.
Be like, hey, I'm doing evals.
And then you can tell all your coworkers,
look how good we're doing.
You can even track those metrics over time.
But really, what are you doing good at?
Nobody knows.
You just have numbers that don't really mean anything.
Who the hell knows the difference between 4.2 and 4.7?
This tone, what the hell does tone mean?
This is actually a real dashboard.
It's not a screenshot of the dashboard.
I asked Claude to recreate the dashboard slightly
from a real screenshot of a client,
but this is actually what I saw.
And yeah, this is one way to waste incredible time and money
because you're going to chase these metrics.
They won't really mean anything.
And there's a lot of eval tools to offer these.
You can import from eval's import helpfulness.
And you can apply that on your traces.
And honestly, it's a waste of time.
Do not do this.
Use, do error analysis and find problems
that you actually have and then measure those.
Don't measure this generic bullshit.
So let's go into it further.
Just to drive home the point more,
yes, to really maximize the blast radius
of that dynamite under your ass,
just let others dictate your metrics.
Use all of them blindly
and trust that they align with your goals.
So, okay, like these are some examples.
I think this on the left-hand side,
this is like some eval tool inside OpenAI's dashboard.
Oh, sorry.
And they have some metrics here, like sentiment,
they have factuality, whatever.
This is a screenshot from another eval tool, brain trust.
This is one from Galileo.
It doesn't really matter.
If you really want to yourself fail as fast as possible,
just adopt all of these at the same time actually,
and just like import all the metrics
and throw it on a dashboard
because that will cause maximum confusion.
Okay, so that's like the first step to failure.
The second step, if you really want to twist it further
and really just maximize pain
is like just avoid looking at data.
And these are some rules of thumb,
some kind of beliefs that you can adopt
to really be effective at maximizing this kind of failure.
So one is just believe that a tool will do it for you.
Like you can just, you don't need to look at data.
This is the age of LLMs.
Why should you be doing any manual work at all whatsoever?
Just use a tool, just outsource it to a tool
is not your problem, okay?
And then also, okay, fine, if you do need to look at data,
you know what, it's not your problem.
Just let an engineer do it.
All this LLM shit is just engineering bullshit anyways.
Just let an engineer fucking look at your data.
You don't need to look at it.
And then also just don't even look at data at all
because honestly, just trust your gut.
You don't need to look at anything.
Your feelings are always right.
And then ultimately just, and a lot of people do this,
it's just depend on users to tell you if it's broken.
So avoid looking at data.
And just to drive home the point of delegating,
looking at data engineers, a lot of people do that.
When we say, okay, look at data,
it's the person with the domain expertise
that needs to look at data.
And it's a critical mistake people make.
So there's a technique called error analysis
that you may have heard about in this course,
or you may have seen indirectly,
which is really important for you to go through your data
and look at it and annotate that data
so that you can discover the failure modes you have
and to actually measure things that matter
and not that dashboard full of X, Y, Z metrics.
Yeah, and we talk about it, I have a little page here.
This is from a different presentation for executives,
but if you want to maximize failure, don't do this.
Do not look at your data, do not label it.
And a lot of people, if you really want to fail even harder,
just have an excuse that like, hey, looking at data is hard.
You need to buy specialized tools to do that.
Don't use simple, easy to use things.
So being unsarcastic for a moment,
you can use things like Excel to start looking at data
and do this error analysis.
I'm not going deep into error analysis now,
we can talk about that in the Q&A,
this is just more to bring up the point of,
hey, like error analysis 101 is basically looking
at your traces and categorizing the errors that you have
and writing notes about them,
and then doing some data analysis over those notes
to highlight what kinds of failures you have.
This is like a example, this is a screenshot
from some error analysis that I've done recently
where, okay, like LLM responses,
there's a lot of incomplete responses
where the input had code in it.
So that might not mean anything to you,
but this is an example and that drives,
okay, what kinds of tests you write,
what kinds of evals you might write, so on and so forth.
And then finally encourage agent astronauts.
So instead of actually building anything,
just keep drawing these diagrams.
And I see this all the time,
oh, should we use LandGraph?
Should we use LamaIndex?
Like really sweat about if your architecture is right,
if you're using like enough agents
and what agent should go where
and just get really caught up in that.
And forget about evals,
just start with the most complex solution.
And then really the last thing you could do
is really just throw away everything
that has been the wisdom of classic machine learning.
So this is a diagram, you may have seen it before
if you're familiar with machine learning.
This is from a Google paper
about technical debt and machine learning systems.
Or it's like machine learning systems
are all very complicated.
There's a lot of different concerns that you have,
feature extraction, serving infrastructure,
process management tools, machine learning code.
And hey, we don't need any,
you don't really, you can have the belief like,
hey, you don't need any data literacy.
You don't really need any of this knowledge
because LLMs are just APIs.
But really, is that really the case?
And if you look really closely,
a lot of these things are the same.
Configuration, there's elements of that
with talk about managing prompts, data collection,
you have human in the loop workflows
when we want to curate datasets.
This course covered rags,
so don't need to go into what that is.
But there's a reason evals is at the center of this
because you want to verify
what's coming in and out of the LLM.
And then finally, on an unsarcastic note,
you could also just ignore conventional wisdom.
Hey, that manual inspection of data probably has,
that is very important and then evals are very important.
But as you can, yeah, that's the sarcastic talk.
Hopefully that was lighthearted and fun.
We're doing a course on evals
that will take you through in a lot of detail,
like how to construct evals,
how to deal with very complicated cases,
where you may have multi-turn conversations,
where outputs are ambiguous,
what to do if you don't have data,
what to do if you don't have users, all kinds of things.
We go through that in a lot of detail.
If that's interesting to you, check it out.
Otherwise we can have Q&A.
Awesome, let me open up the slide IO
and then I think there's only a couple of questions there
and then we probably just have a conversation more
about some of the things that you've seen so far
in your consulting.
The first question is, for the retriever component,
what is the suggested approach for evaluating results
when you have ground truth?
All right, so this would be in generation, for example.
Are you able to see the links, by the way?
Sorry, what was the question about links?
Are you able to see the questions as well?
I just love to comment in the chat.
Oh, I see, let me open it.
Perfect.
You're still sharing your screen, by the way.
Let me stop.
Okay, let me open the questions.
For the retriever component, what's the suggested approach
for evaluating results when you have ground truth?
So actually you should look at Jason's blog.
He has a really good blog post.
I think it's like levels of rag, maybe.
And in that, let me see if I can find it.
I can take a look.
So there's like level four evaluations.
And that's like a nice, very high level way to think about.
In that blog post, it's called
Levels and Complexity of Rag Applications.
He does like synthetically generate what the Q and A,
like the Q and A pairs are.
The same holds true if you already have ground truth,
if that makes sense.
And you can use-
I think here this is also a good case
of actually using something like an LLM
to judge these results, right?
Because we have pretty good reasoning models now
where given a certain answer,
if it's slightly rephrased or anything like that,
do you feel like just judging the similarity
of a synthetic answer or a ground truth error
with the LLM output is a pretty good idea?
Or do you feel like even then we need to start thinking
about training our own LLM as a judge?
For example, comparing string answers, for example.
Yeah, if you're comparing string answers, then no.
But if you want some more nuanced analysis,
like you're saying that you want some kind of LLM
as a judge, that's fine.
I think that in practice, you need to do an analysis
that lets you trust your LLM as a judge.
And what that means is you need to do some human labeling
that where you measure the agreement of the judge with you.
Because at the end of the day,
the reason why most LLM judge fails
is people don't trust them and they don't understand them.
So that's, yeah, it's key that you do that.
And I think that kind of answers John's question as well.
Yeah, do you think that with these new reasoning models,
there's more to trust or do you still generally think
that the case that it still doesn't really live
up to expectations, especially with the 03 mini, for example?
So you do have to check it.
Like there's, I don't care how smart it is.
Even if it was you, Jason, and manually judging everything,
I would still check it to trust it.
And like you might check it less,
like the stronger the model it is, you may,
but you still have to do that exercise of,
okay, does it match the domain expert?
There's really no escaping that.
Because at the end of the day, you have to trust the judge.
There's only one way to do that.
I see.
This is a question that I tend to bring up as well,
which is what if we don't actually care about the values
of these off the shelf evals,
but just that as we monitor them over time,
we want to look at situations when they change radically.
Imagine a lot of this kind of plummets
at some random date, at some random time.
Yeah.
So what you can do is you can do statistical tests
and things like that to see,
and you can set up monitoring on that to see,
okay, if points are going beyond certain thresholds.
So that's certainly a valid exercise.
There's actually some people building tools
that focus on just that aspect.
It's certainly valid.
I would say make sure that your evals
are not too hypothetical.
Like that you understand what the value means to you.
So it shouldn't be like going back to that dashboard
where it have all these random metrics,
and you just want to know
if one of them changes drastically.
I find that if you don't understand your metric,
then it's just adding a lot of noise.
That would just caveat.
Don't make the exercise too academic.
It gives a follow up question on the off the shelf evals
is do you not believe in any general purpose
eval frameworks, or is it the case that we feel
like it's too early in the tech cycle
and we don't really have a strong standard yet?
So I think on balance,
general eval frameworks where you just point something at it
and it just tells you what your problems are
and if you're doing good or bad,
generally don't work that well.
They demo really well in sales meetings,
but they don't work.
And that's because domains tend to be fairly specific
and the problems, they tend not to align with the problems
that you should actually care about
and the failures that you are actually having.
They might surface some problems,
but it's a slippery slope.
You don't want to just rely on those
and think that you've solved your eval problem
because it tends to be fairly low signal.
Now, if we start getting close to AGI,
then maybe you could say like the work that I'm doing
or Jason is doing to look at data
and figure out like what you should be measuring
and how you should do that.
Okay, that can be done by an AI,
but at this point, it's not at that.
Maybe you could pose a general question to an AI
at some point where it might be able to do that,
but it's hard to know that without looking at data first
and coming up with specific metrics.
And then also like you can measure an infinite set of things.
So you can come up with the infinite set of metrics.
And also there's lots of different components
in AI applications.
There's tool calls, there's rag, there's agents,
and you can measure each component
and you can ground really fast in all of these things.
If you don't prioritize and have some focus,
and that's why it's really important to do error analysis
first to focus yourself on what matters.
So that's another reason why I just don't think
general purpose eval frameworks are a good idea.
Do you have any, the next question is,
do you have any case studies or examples
where you have defined some kind of very highly specific
or highly valuable set of evals
that you've implemented and worked really well?
Yeah, exactly.
I'll have to hear yours first.
Okay, yeah, I'll just give you some really dumb examples
just to drive home the fact that it doesn't have
to be rocket science.
So for example, if you ever see,
if you see like UUIDs being emitted into the user
or in the AI response when it shouldn't be,
cause it's in the system message or something,
okay, that might happen.
Or you might have formatting issues.
You might have others dumb things
that you can easily write assertions and tests for
that you know shouldn't be happening,
but you only find that because you're looking at your data.
Another example is I'm working with a leasing,
an AI apartment leasing assistant
and its job is to,
one of his jobs is to help make appointments,
but it's always getting dates wrong.
There's like some ambiguity sometimes
in the way that you might ask for appointment
about what date you're actually talking about,
that a human that you might understand,
but the AI is getting wrong.
So yeah, you can have some, you can test that.
You can test, okay, you can have ground truth there
and you can write tests.
And there's some examples I've talked about publicly.
For example, like I've worked on a lot of code things.
So like a natural language query assistant,
like there's a product called Honeycomb
where you can type in natural language query
and it generates a Honeycomb query.
So in that case, yeah, I have LM as a judge
that really bakes in like a lot of failure modes
that tend to happen that is correlated with a domain expert
and they trust it.
So those are some examples of like everything
from really stupid, right assertion to like LM as a judge.
Yeah, I'll add one that I talk about in next week's lecture
just because it's been top of mind, which is we have a,
I worked on a sales bot where after the call
we would basically try to reference as many existing articles
in our marketing content
to supplement the conversation that we had.
So maybe during the phone call,
we talked about this new feature.
We wanna make sure that in our email,
we link to that feature or link to a blog post
that mentions that feature.
And when we first ran this, what we found was sometimes
it would either make up a URL entirely
or the URL would be from our domains.
Maybe it's like json.com, but then the slug was wrong.
And our simple eval was effectively running
a regular expression to find all the URLs,
verifying that all the URLs came from our website.
And then we will make a small post request to that URL
to make sure that page was not a 404.
This is a very simple arrest.
Find a regular expression, ping every single URL,
verify that it's on our domain,
it's on a white list of domains, or it has a 200 status.
And just by doing that, we went from a 1% to 3%
hallucination rate to basically no errors
in our URL generation.
This might feel obvious, but even deep research right now,
if you ask me for tables of URLs,
sometimes we'll just create example.com slash whatever.
And so even deep research right now
will give you URLs that don't point to anything.
That's a great example.
You can only become aware of that kind of error
if you looked at your data
and you've looked at some examples.
If you just threw like a general eval framework on it,
there's no way in hell that would be like,
tell you about this very specific thing.
That's why they don't work.
Yeah, there's been examples like early on in development
where someone had asked a question about a feature
and it would just pull this feature
from any arbitrary provider.
And so we also have this feature,
but there's probably some probability
that it mentioned the feature from a URL from a competitor
and that would look terrible.
But these tests are again, are very simple.
Another very simple eval was for meeting summarization
where our eval was just the length of the summary
divided by the length of the transcript.
And we knew we wanted to be between 40 to 50%.
We didn't want it to be 10%,
but we didn't want it to be 90%.
And again, you don't really need any sophisticated tools
to build those things out.
And those are the things that really matter, right?
It's very-
If you use sophisticated tools,
you're gonna torpedo yourself
because you're just gonna waste time.
Like you're never gonna get to that answer.
Exactly.
So a ton of these simple things
are pretty straightforward.
I think the second question is really interesting
because you've also written extensively around this,
which is what is the equivalent of a unit test,
a integration test and an end-to-end test
for AI applications?
And how do you focus on each one?
Okay, I've written about that so much
that I don't, it's, yeah.
Let me see if I can figure out a different way to say it.
You can test an infinite amount of things, okay?
Like I said, you can test the rag,
you can test the retrieval separately,
you can test the function calls are working,
you can test, you can do an end-to-end,
you can just test the final output,
you can do all kinds of shit.
You can use LM as a judge.
What do you test?
That is a question everyone has.
And the answer to that question
is doing the error analysis, looking at your data.
I would almost say evals is not even as important
as looking at your data.
And when I say looking at your data,
it's a structured way of looking at your data.
And there's different levels,
or different levels of sophistication
of looking at your data.
But just to begin with, it's going through your traces
and categorizing different errors
and then doing some data analysis on that to figure out,
okay, what is like the most pressing problem
that I should solve?
And then also in there, you will find,
okay, these are some things I should measure.
You can't measure every,
you shouldn't try to just come up with,
try to measure everything.
Now the question of what is the equivalent
of unit integration end-to-end tests,
I think that doesn't really matter.
I think it's apparent,
like you can measure different components.
You can measure the entire system as a whole.
Just does the output work?
Like the output given to the user, the final result,
is it what they're looking for?
But really it should be driven by the error analysis.
Yeah, and in these examples with the meeting notes,
it was very much just a case
that our customers kept saying the feedback
that the summary was too short
relative to how long our six hour meeting was.
And now we'll define one eval to address that.
And then someone else would say, you know what?
The links keep breaking.
Okay, great, now let's add one more eval.
It's rarely the case, at least in science,
to create these evals before we actually build out the product.
I think a lot of computer scientists,
at least if you think about what the CS homework looks like,
it's very much let's enumerate all the failure modes
and then write software that captures these failure modes.
Whereas I think in practice,
a lot of the time you will tend to deploy something,
get some testers, get that feedback,
and then you capture the evals through that negative feedback.
This is also a really great question
because I also have a pretty high conviction answer these days,
which is what is the least painful way
to do human data labeling?
How do you convince enterprises to dedicate
n percentage of time to verify answers,
especially when domain experts are needed?
So it's really important to move all friction
from doing human labeling.
And human labeling, let's generalize that term a little bit
to looking at data, okay?
So what I mean by that is where your data lives,
if it's living in some kind of application,
whatever logging system that you're using,
you shouldn't have to click 10 times on something
to read trace.
Also, a lot of domain specific situations
call for rendering the trace in a very specific way.
Let's say you have markdown in your trace.
Let's say you have widgets
that you're rendering in your chat bot, whatever.
A lot of times you need to render that information
so that you can read it.
You don't want to read a big blob of stuff
that's not human readable.
Also, a lot of times there might be metadata
that you need access to.
There might be external systems that you need to,
or you need side by side to evaluate
whether a trace is doing,
whether this, to evaluate an interaction
being successful or not.
A lot of times, so for the simple cases,
it can be really effective to use Excel sometimes.
It depends, if it's really long multi-turn conversations
that don't fit in Excel and it's janky,
then you can't really use it.
Sometimes you can use these observability eval tools.
They'll have annotation cues,
but it's really important that you're able to page
through them very fast
without having to click on a bunch of stuff.
And a lot of times I build my own.
You can build something in Streamlit, Radio, whatever,
and it doesn't take that long to build.
You just have some buttons and a place to put notes,
but then you can render stuff in the way you want.
You can render the chat in the way you want.
You can put metadata on the page.
You can render markdown.
You can render the widgets, whatever the hell.
You can put links on there, the link, whatever you need.
And that's often worth it.
It takes away all the pain from annotating.
And because it's the most important activity
you can engage in with AI,
it's really high return on investment.
I would say you need to think about doing that.
And we're not really talking about that much time.
We'd say dedicate, how you convince enterprises
to dedicate percent of time.
You don't have to annotate every single trace that occurs.
You can sample.
There's ways to sample.
Jason may have already talked about,
you can cluster your traces.
You can explore these different clusters, things like that.
And it's not about, yeah,
the way you're convincing enterprises is you can't skip it.
If you skip looking at data,
then you might as well just stop.
It's not going to work, essentially.
As a consultant, there's been times
when I've just offered to give the money back.
If you're hiring me to make your AI better
and you're not going to label any data,
then it's not going to get any better.
So here's the money back.
Let me know if you're more serious
about doing this kind of work.
I'll also add one call out, two call outs, really.
The first one is, especially in the world
of having things like Loveable or Bolt or Sonnet and Cursor,
building one-off data labeling tools
has become very straightforward,
especially if you just make your backend
some kind of SQLite thing.
I think some of these new AI tools,
they can just connect to SuperBase
and now you have a backend in the cloud.
The second thing also is the fact
that there are different kinds of tasks
you can ask someone to do.
If you were to give me a task that says,
given this text, summarize something for me,
that would take the human a lot of effort
and cognitive load and it would be a very slow task.
That might take three minutes per label.
But humans, and just like models,
are much better at choosing preferences
or doing binary tasks.
So not only is it about what tasks do you build,
but how can you make a task
is should just be a pass fail, right?
If you generate me two summaries,
it's very easy to tell you which summary is the better one.
Whereas if you give me a single summary,
now I have to think of, read this whole thing
and figure what's going on.
Same thing with reasoning steps.
It's one thing to ask a human a reason,
it's another to say, given an LLM reasoning,
do you agree with it or not?
And again, it's all about making these tasks
very binary, where they should just be J to accept,
K to reject, and you're onto the next label.
Yeah, I would go any further and say
highly bias yourself towards binary scoring.
Don't have one to five scores
because it's very complicated to align on that.
And they tend to go off the rails.
When you're beginning, just you need to simplify
and use binary kind of judgment.
Matthew, do you wanna jump on to first question?
Yeah, I have a question about how to,
like eval's in the context of experiments.
If you're making a change to LLM system,
it seems largely the way a lot of people do it
is just eyeballing, right?
As in not really attempting to measure statistical effect
and just seeing like the number goes up.
And I was curious, I know the answer is probably,
it depends, right?
On what ultimately you're trying to do,
like what you care about, like the sensitivity
or like how precisely you care about your results.
But from your experience,
like working with a lot of teams on this,
just curious if there's any,
if you see like how much of this sort of
statistical robustness do you see when running eval's?
Yeah, or interpreting the results of eval's.
There isn't, to be honest with you, in the wild,
I haven't seen too much robustness.
People trying to add error bars on their eval's
and things like that.
People struggling with creating the eval's to begin with
that makes sense.
And it's quite the journey for people, at least now,
especially if we don't have like data expertise
or data science background.
If you have data science background,
totally different situation,
but that's the minority of the situations.
And yeah, there aren't many people doing it.
Yeah, like it is worth thinking about,
especially like if your system is stable
and you have like good baseline from which to begin with
and you have some idea of what you're looking for.
But yeah, that's my observation.
The closest I've gotten to doing this kind of
experimentation is just two things,
like either one, bootstrap sampling with replacement
to compute some kind of error bars
when you do these like bar charts,
or two, thinking about doing these like kind of T tests.
That said, you know, I think a lot of companies I join,
they start with only maybe 30 to 40 eval's,
in which case like nothing's really gonna work.
A lot of the statistical signals is really gonna come in
once you have hundreds of eval's to run against.
And so the first step,
unless you already have hundreds of eval's,
is basically just to create synthetic data,
create more tests, sample from user production traffic,
and then get to a place where you can use something
like bootstrapping or T tests to compare results.
Awesome, thank you, Bill.
John?
I wanted to follow on from this conversation,
but also the previous,
whenever you have humans labeling stuff,
help me understand a little bit more concretely,
where does that data go?
Like, where do you store it?
How much of it goes into a business discussion,
this is what we need to focus on,
versus concrete unit test or like more formal eval's.
When do you do the eval's?
Is it when you're merging a branch,
or is it just periodic,
or is there like a time-wise pipeline
of setting up eval's for companies?
Yeah, okay, with the labeling, where does it live?
It could live anywhere.
You want some kind of database.
Ideally, that you can put stuff into,
group them by annotation run or something like that.
Sometimes it's spreadsheets.
It depends, I don't try to be too dogmatic about it,
because the most important thing is people do it.
And then it ends up,
it should be used for decision-making.
So you're like, where does it come up in the business context?
Okay, we are seeing that XYZ problem is occurring a lot.
Let's go fix that.
And then ABC problem is here.
We don't really know how to fix it,
but let's go ahead and at least write an eval for that
right now, to try to at least start measuring it,
because we don't even know how to fix it.
Those are the kinds of discussions that happen.
And then when do you run, so let's say you run eval's.
So eval's have a cost.
The spectrum is free to very expensive.
Free is writing an assertion.
There's a string comparison.
Somewhere in the middle is like maybe LLM as a judge,
which is okay, you're running, you're calling it LLM.
And then there's whatever, humans,
like labeling stuff.
There's not really like a silver bullet answer,
but for the free stuff, you can think of that as,
you can run those just as frequently
as you run your unit tests in your code.
Whatever you have in PyTest,
you can put those in PyTest if you want, doesn't matter.
With the ones that are a little bit more expensive,
you have to be thoughtful, like how expensive is it?
And you might want to run it
a little bit more infrequently depending on what it is.
There's like slow tests,
and some of these tests like take time.
They might take like several minutes to run.
And so what I have done with my clients is like,
we have different cadences for different tests
and different things that will trigger those tests.
It's not just on every commit,
it's like on some other kind of event
that will trigger those tests, if that makes sense.
Yeah, you just have to figure out the cost benefit
and slot it in, but there's a spectrum
that you can think about.
And your customers, when they're dealing
with even the unit tests,
they can still be very non-deterministic.
Like the unit test in this domain is a weird beast
compared to what we've always thought of as unit tests.
What are your customers, how do your customers process
a unit test that doesn't have a deterministic failure,
but always this weird stochastic stuff?
Yeah, so in those cases, we're logging things.
So sometimes I have some customers that I have
LLM invocations in their unit tests,
because they're so cheap.
Like they're like, ah, it's not a big deal,
or whatever, who cares?
And for those cases, those metrics are logged to a database.
And then they're just looking at really high level,
is the number actually, is there a noticeable deviation?
And there's some more analysis that's automatically done.
It's not just one metric, it's okay,
these are different product areas and different scenarios,
and where are the errors in each of those?
And then we have a side-by-side
that shows the baseline versus that.
And we're just looking to see,
okay, is there a large deviation?
You could do a statistical analysis on it.
Like I said, a lot of my clients are not there yet.
They're just getting to that point
where we're putting the plumbing in place.
Ashkan, do you want to go for the last question
before we wrap up?
Yeah, my question is following up on the question
of the quick eval for meeting summary generation,
that you basically do a split
and see how much summary you captured.
Wanted to know if you have any experiences
on creating evals for content generation,
something like legal contract that's given a prompt
or given a query, you generate the contract
and you want to evaluate if you've captured
all the nuances or all the articles have been mentioned
or any similar experience.
Want to know what would be the approach for that?
Can you explain what you mean
by all the articles are mentioned?
Because in this example, you could have a situation
where given some request ahead of time,
what articles should have been mentioned.
If we have a golden dataset like that,
then you can think about something like a precision
and recall for your citations.
So given this context and this request,
I know I should have mentioned articles four, nine and 12.
Is that at least being cited?
And if it's cited, that's one level of bit.
Those would be the binary test, right?
Those are the tests that you can run forever.
Afterwards, Ogon?
No, I was gonna, for an example of article,
let's say we are creating a contract generation
and it is in regards to a project
and we have series of older projects or data set.
And then given the prompt,
we wanna generate that contract and then check,
for example, if the termination clause is mentioned
or it's not.
So there would be another set of problems, right?
We could, for example, consider this in a way
that's much more structured,
in which case maybe what I'm asking the LLM to do
is actually return a JSON object first
and then I'm gonna format that into a legal document.
And if we do that, then we can verify specific attributes,
whether they're missing, how long are they?
That's one level.
The second level of things that we'd look at
is basically building a suite of judges
where really it's just gonna be like a rubric
where maybe there are just six different checks
I wanna verify.
And as long as you make each one binary
and you verify whether or not
that these binary classifications
are aligned with your own preferences,
you'll effectively get a rubric
that still is something that's very high quality.
So one could be,
I wanna evaluate the structure of the output
because every contract has to have a termination date
and so this is something I care about.
Maybe I have a rubric
where there's much more subjective things.
And then lastly, just checking whether or not
the documents that I think this answer
or this question should have cited
are actually being cited.
And that could be more of like a precision and recall.
Am I referencing articles that don't need to be mentioned?
That'd be low recall.
Did I forget to mention article 17, B1?
If that's the case and I didn't have good recall.
It's usually gonna be a suite of these things.
And really I would go down and say,
okay, turns out we do have an issue
with making sure these dates are extracted correctly.
Let's build an eval for that specifically.
Oh, I'm noticing articles aren't being created.
Let's go build a single eval for that.
But again, it goes backwards from the errors
into what the eval should be
rather than just saying we should have a suite of evals.
I see.
Do you have any other examples of what this-
Yeah, that's an important thing to repeat again.
We should repeat that 10 times.
Go from the errors you actually have into the eval.
Do not ever go think about,
oh, let's think of some evals
and let's slap it on your data.
Just don't, never, don't ever do that.
Yeah, makes sense.
For example, that I'm working on now
challenge with is generating response to a RFP.
And there is generally,
I've played a system that goes
and captures all the requirement,
creates a bunch of question,
and then uses those question
to formulate the template of the response.
But sometimes there are some nuances
that is hidden between paragraphs
or something that is very vague language
that will be missed and is a critical thing.
And it's something that like only
because I have the domain expertise,
I could go read and then figure it out.
And I want to know what,
or if you had a similar experience
from a different domain and-
Yeah, we've done this kind of work
in financial due diligence,
but here what we've mostly done
is make sure the templating that we do
is very static across multiple industries.
And so it's not the case that I extract the questions
and create a template.
It's more that I already have an existing template.
And so there is always a question
of how long have the co-founders known each other for?
That's a question that we're gonna apply
every single situation.
And because of that,
we then can just build something where we have the field,
it's auto-populated by LLM.
And when a human is reviewing the template,
they can always press thumbs up or thumbs down
to figure out that this is good quality or bad quality.
And now what I do,
I just go over my template and go,
what are the areas of my template that's failing the most?
And what kind of investments do I need to make that better?
And now usually it becomes a thing where,
oh, we are not counting the names of the companies correctly
because in some use cases,
Calvin Klein for Calvin Klein
is actually different than Calvin Klein CK, right?
Okay, now let's go build out some deduplication evals
to make sure we can solve this problem specifically.
But there the idea is we templatize things,
we add buttons to collect feedback,
and then we review that feedback
to figure out what we need to improve next.
Thank you. No problem.
But also you don't need to be,
it should be worth mentioning,
you don't need to be like overzealous about evals.
Measure things that you want to track.
A lot of times you'll see an error.
If you're doing error analysis properly,
you'll see a lot of things that you should just go fix.
Oh, this is happening.
I know exactly how to fix that.
And then just go fix it.
You may not need to write an eval for it.
You have to use some judgment.
Okay, should I be tracking this or not?
Yeah, the goal really is to make a better product.
The goal is not to have some kind of comprehensive
suite of tests.
Ashkan, did you have a follow up?
I just saw your handle was so closed.
In which case, I think this is a good time to stop.
You have two minutes left.
Again, Hamal, thank you for this.
I'm pretty excited to hear the longer talk.
When is your talk, by the way?
Do you know if it's on like the Friday or the Thursday?
I think it's on Thursday.
On Thursday, cool.
I'll make sure we can make that.
And then, yeah, I'm sure we'll see it on YouTube
and everything else.
And I'll share it with the group afterwards.
Great. All right.
Thank you so much, Hamal.
Everyone else, have a nice day.
