The goal of today and the goal of looking at copywriting in general is to be able to
raise that awareness about yourself and what you can offer in a way that's compelling to
other people.
So let's tell you a little bit about me.
I started my career as a technical writer.
I used to write technical manuals for Wi-Fi spectrum analysis products, really technical
kind of dry, kind of boring stuff.
And then while I was studying computer science at school, my background is in communication
theory with a minor in computer science, which is kind of a unique, hold on a second, my
screen just moved on me, kind of a unique background there.
Also worked in marketing.
I've been a scrum master and a product owner again at that Wi-Fi company and then on some
other products.
Most recently for about the last almost a decade, I worked on content engineering efforts
for developer education products that moved into the seven figures.
So that goes from instructional design of like what the course is actually going to
contain, the actual writing of lessons based on videos of the product.
And then on from there, I already mentioned the technical manuals, landing products, landing
pages, excuse me, and marketing materials.
And lately for the past several years, like from before chat GPT was even released, around
the time of GPT two, I had started working on automation around that kind of marriage
of writing and AI.
And there you go.
I built automations around that.
And then I also most recently co-authored total typescript, which is a book that will
be published by no starch coming up soon.
And I used everything I'm going to show you today.
I used while writing that draft.
And yeah, I'm currently consulting as well.
Today here's the plan.
We're going to talk about the writing environment setup.
I'm assuming that everybody in the audience has used cursor or at least are aware of it.
And I guess vibe coding is becoming increasingly popular, but we're going to go in a little
bit of a different way.
And we'll do this through a four phase demo of a writing project.
And then if we have time at the end, there'll be some Q&A and then maybe going deeper into
the demo.
So the demo that we're going to do is, I guess, before I skip ahead.
So our demo will be writing a pitch for consulting services.
So this is going to be similar to what Jason teaches in his workshop, but go a little bit
more in depth.
So let's start talking about setting up cursor as a writing environment.
So first of all, cursor is a fork of Visual Studio Code.
I'll kind of go a little bit fast through this because I'm assuming that we all have
experience with this.
But so it can do, cursor can do everything that Visual Studio Code can do, but then it
has AI features built in as well.
One of these features is the ability to have contextual awareness of your entire project.
And it has AI powered auto completion, chat, and agentic code generation features.
I would push up my glasses if I still wore them when I say that.
It also has web search capabilities built in and it supports specific configuration
rules.
And these are all things that we're going to look at in the lens of content creation.
One of the features in VS Code and cursor that I like to point out that a lot of people
miss is there is an outline view in the lower corner.
And this is, it will show you in your markdown where different heading levels are.
It's great not only for getting started, like instead of starting with a blank page, you
can set up an outline for yourself with different heading levels.
And this is a good way to search through that.
Or if you're using an existing document, it makes it easy to kind of get a feel for
where you are.
All of these are the kind of accordion expando things just for the record.
Also down there is a timeline view.
This is also super useful.
Think of this kind of like in Google Docs or something where you have that like that
history of what the edits were.
So this will let you kind of do a diff between what's changed.
And this is something that's better on the small scale in case you aren't using Git.
I don't know why you aren't.
If you're not, please learn Git.
But this will help you out there.
Then the search feature, I'm on a Mac.
I think that on Windows, everything that says command is a control.
Don't quote me on that.
But this ties in with that headline view of shift command O, and then you can start typing
a different heading like words from it.
So this is something that will also help you navigate Docs.
So this is something that it works in code, too.
A lot of people seem to miss that it's there.
And now for this, these are some extensions that I use for writing specifics.
So Markdown all in one is it gives you shortcuts for things like highlighting text and hitting
command B to turn it into bold.
But it's Markdown.
So it's things like that.
It also enhances the Markdown previews.
Mermaid chart support.
I used and one of Jason's emails built a mermaid chart to explain kind of the consulting
ecosystem, which is pretty cool.
Markdown lint is very similar to ESLint or other tools like that.
It will find problems in a document based on a set of rules.
Commonly when using an AI generation, an AI generated document, there might be things
like too many spaces that you don't like, or maybe it uses bold for a heading.
Bold text is a heading instead of an actual heading level.
Change case is handy for swapping between camel case, kebab case, stuff like that.
Code spell checker is a code spell checker.
And local history is something that is kind of going off that timeline view.
It is somewhere between that and Git where entire versions of your file are saved in
a .history folder in the root of your project.
And that's super handy for not having to remember to Git commit and then it will catch
stuff that the timeline view misses.
And then jumpy2, I don't use all the time, but sometimes it's pretty clutch.
It's just like what's it called?
The Vim plugin whose name I forget.
But anyways, it lets you jump to something, to a word.
I'll show it in a few.
It will make way more sense.
And then again, a quick overview of the key cursor features that I use when writing.
The quick inline AI edits.
That is done with command K.
The AI sidebar, which is where ask and agent mode are.
This is also where most of the changes in cursor take place, it seems.
There's a lot of UI changes they do.
Context awareness of your project.
I'll just skip those next couple of clicks.
And then cursor rules we'll talk about.
What we won't talk about today is MCP servers and the custom edit mode feature that recently
came out.
These are awesome.
Definitely check them out, but we won't do it today.
For the demo, let's take a look at how we would write a consulting pitch email.
We're going to do this iteratively and build out the strategy behind it as we go.
I'd like to point out now also that while this process that we're doing for this demo
uses cursor, the process could be applicable to any AI front end or writing your own scripts.
But hey, we're talking about cursor today, right?
Okay, so phase zero.
We're going to start with a naive prompting approach.
And we'll do this using cursors ask mode, which is essentially a regular chat.
It doesn't have the agent features where it won't create or change your files or do anything
like that.
It will just ask you ask a question and it answers it in the thing.
And we will do this with a basic write an email to get new clients as a copywriter prompt.
So I am going to switch my screen share to cursor and close that terminal out.
And so I did do one ahead of time just to see.
But demo, the demo gods might be on my side, but I pre pre made the demo just in case.
We'll see what happens here.
Close the sidebar.
Oh, see, I didn't tell it to search the web.
So this is interesting.
This is why I did this ahead of time.
I'm kind of surprised that it's doing that like that.
Oh, I see.
Because I didn't set the model.
Let's use a 3.7 on it.
See, this is why I pre generate this stuff.
It still wants to search.
Let's just close that and pretend.
I do have MCP servers enabled.
Yep.
So that's why I did this without that.
Thanks, Alex, for the comment there.
This is why I did this.
The prompt, write me an email to get new clients as a copywriter.
I think when we were all getting used to GPT stuff, we probably did a similar prompt to
this.
So what we have here, and because cursor has a UI bug, where if you close the sidebar and
then reopen, it will cut off the sides.
That is really cool that that says, let's just say it said professional.
All right.
Subject, elevate your brand with compelling copywriting, grabbing attention and holding
its crucial.
Does it connect?
Professional copyright.
This probably had a sentence that got cut off, which is weird.
I help businesses like yours.
This is kind of just generic.
It's better than nothing.
It's maybe better than starting with a blank page.
But it's just like, you can't tell that I'm trying to sell consulting services or find
a client or anything like that.
It's better than nothing.
It's better than a blank page.
But if I got this email, it just doesn't do it for me.
So let's go back to the slides and let's keep going here.
So this is where the Ada framework comes in.
The Ada framework is one that Jason uses in his AI consulting workshop.
It's a classic framework.
I'm going to take a drink of water.
See, I'm so excited.
I haven't done a presentation in so long and I just love talking about this stuff.
So it's one of the older frameworks.
It's been around for over 100 years.
And let's take a look at what it is.
It's attention, interest, desire, and action.
The attention, the goal of attention, you want to capture audience focus.
You want to stand out with a pattern interrupt.
And a pattern interrupt is that's something that's kind of an unexpected thing that it
doesn't follow what the reader necessarily expects.
It's either in some ways a subject line, like one of Jason's emails, my $700 an hour mistake
is a pattern interrupt because it doesn't seem like $700 an hour would be a mistake.
It actually seems kind of awesome.
In other examples might be when couples are like, we're so close, we finish each other's
and then you either think sentences or sandwiches because those are the two ways that sentence
is ended.
But maybe they finish each other's, I don't know what they finish.
You fill in your own blank there.
And then you can do that with using headlines and what I call non-no questions.
It's best to, one of the best practices that I was taught by one of my mentors and I've
seen over the years is that you don't want to start an email or a landing page with a
question that somebody could answer no to.
Because if they answer no, they're not going to read anymore.
So the next phase is interest.
This is a progression from attention to get the reader interested in what you're talking
about.
This is where you would elaborate on the problem or the core solution.
In this case is jobs to be done, which is a kind of a theory for product design.
And it's kind of outside the scope of right now, but worth looking up if you're not familiar.
And it clearly connects the topics to the reader's needs.
For desire, you want to create an emotional connection if you can.
And talking with, you know, a technical audience and developers talking about emotions is kind
of like not necessarily cool, I guess.
One of the things that would count as emotional connection is part of Jason's story of having
the wrist injury that kind of ended his career, it seemed like.
So that's something that makes you relatable, makes you or your company that sort of thing.
And highlight benefits over features always.
And proactively address objections.
And then finally the action, you want to provide a clear call to action.
So tell the person what you want them to do.
Sign up, click here, do this.
Try to bring in some urgency.
And it's best to do this in a way that is not, what's the word, like a false urgency
sort of thing.
Like, don't just say you have 30 seconds because that's all there is.
And then make the next steps obvious and easy.
So now that we've kind of made an outline of this, or now that we know what the ADF
Let's change the prompt that we just did to name drop it and rely on the model's own
understanding and knowledge of it instead of like, we're not going to give it any more
context.
Let me switch my terminal to the next branch if I can find the command for terminal because
shift command P everybody.
And this is, I'm going to phase one.
And I got, let's see, I got a control minus minus or control minus tilde.
Sorry.
I am on a three quarter size keyboard that has no tilde.
The tilde is set as the function and escape, but it's a really weird feeling on my little
keyboard.
And then just check in the chat before I switch here.
See if I'm missing anything.
Comment from Remy.
I'm curious to try slide dev with cursor.
This is slide dev right now.
I'm using it.
Pretty cool.
All right.
So I'm going to switch screens back to cursor.
And so we still have our naive prompting approach open.
And I am not going to do that.
I am going to go to zero one Ada without explanation.
So this is the prompt that I used in cursors ask bar.
Again, not going to try to do it live because of course it doesn't work the way it did when
I did this.
But so all we've done here.
The only difference is we've told it to follow the Ada framework.
We're still using Gemini Pro 325, which is been pretty awesome in my opinion.
Let's take a look at these side by side.
We have we notice here that the response has added the kind of fake headings.
This I hope further drives the point that you should never ever just blindly accept
whatever the model gives you and ship it.
That is not a good idea.
So attention.
Are you struggling to convert website visitors into paying customers?
Is your marketing message falling flat?
See when I read stuff like this I picture like those black and white like the infomercials
where the beginning is in black and white and then like what's his name comes out and
like slaps the duct tape on the boat or whatever.
So does your current marketing copy truly connect?
Like it's trying to be a little more clever.
The imagine here.
So that's good.
So it starts to kind of like imagining is a good thing.
I don't necessarily use that word when I write, but this explains why copywriting is important.
Gets you interested in it.
Desire.
I help businesses like yours.
This is what I've done.
See my problem with this is this says I a lot like I do this, I do this, I do this.
Like you haven't really demonstrated that you understand the problems, but better.
It's still better than this.
I guess like it's still an improvement.
And then action.
Let's schedule a call.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
Check out my portfolio.
Pretty good.
Pretty solid on the whole.
And all we did was add this directive to follow the copywriting framework.
Let's go back and look at where is the button.
There it is.
Let's go back to some slides.
Am I talking way too fast?
Like I guess I'm almost like I guess I'm on time.
Prompt with the ADA explanation.
So we're going to do basically the same thing, but this time we're going to use the exact
explanation from the slide that I just showed.
And you'll notice that this time I put the parts of my prompt in XML tags.
I'm a big fan of this.
I do this almost every time.
I would say probably 90% of the time I will structure my prompts with XML tags like this.
And to jump back to cursor because Zoom makes it so easy to do, I will toggle the terminal
and then GCO phase two.
I'll share a link to this repo if anybody is interested in that.
So now that we have ADA without explanation, let's open up 02 with brief explanation.
And I did two versions of this, one with Claude and one with Gemini.
And I did this before, right as I ran out of credits for the day for Gemini, which is
a classic.
Okay, so first let's look at these back and forth together with the no explanation one.
So I'm running cursor in a little tiny window in the top corner of my monitor with a large
font so I feel a little bit weird.
That's only one of the reasons I feel weird.
So Gemini, Gemini.
And then now we can see here the prompt had the stuff in the explanation.
Ever wonder how many people land on your site get confused and leave?
I could say no, because I've never wondered that.
A better question would be like, how many?
Because how many you can't say no to how many.
Strong clear copy isn't nice to have.
It's the engine that turns visitors into leads and leads into sales.
Not too bad.
I like that more on the whole than what's over there.
Poor copy can cost your business, fails to connect.
You got to grab attention instantly.
So yeah, I help businesses like yours do this.
Desire, action.
Yeah, like that's not too bad, actually.
And then Claude version, totally different formatting.
Kind of underwhelming, really.
I think I give the nod to Gemini.
But I think that the point here is that hopefully you can see that we've applied just a little
bit of context and this is already that much better.
I'm talking way more about the examples than I had intended to, by the way, but I can't
help it.
So in order to make things better, we're going to introduce the idea of including context
with cursor.
You might probably be aware that the at symbol allows you to bring in a lot of different
information.
You can bring in files, documentation from the web, even past chats.
What we're going to do now for our writing is we're going to use the at web feature to
search in order to expand the speaker bio that is about me that we wrote at.
We didn't write it.
I wrote it.
The royal we wrote it.
Let's bring in the web and build out an example of fleshing out an audience profile for the
writing based on the speaker bio that's in bio.md.
The way that we'll do this is we'll use at file to include bio.md in the prompt, which
will be the exact bullet point contents from the beginning of the slide, the beginning
of the slideshow, rather.
At web, we'll search this query with the additional info from the file and the slides
will probably be shared.
I'm sure the answer is yes.
I haven't thought that far ahead yet.
You can also use a get plugin to change your branches and such, but classic.
So under resources, we have a bio.md file.
This is these are the bullets from the slide where I introduced myself.
So what I did is using that prompt that I shared, here is first I did this without a
web search, actually.
All I asked for was an audience profile.
And what's interesting about this is when you don't know exactly what elements to include
as additional context in a prompt, doing something like this, kind of rolling the dice and see
that like the model itself looks at profile and it says, so demographics, technical background,
pain points.
So this is all stuff that has been surmised just from the bullet points in the bio that
I provided.
And we're going to use this output as it is for this demo, but hopefully you can kind
of feel your wheels turning about, like maybe you should dig deeper into these kind of segments.
Like if these are the parts that make up an audience profile.
This is Gemini with the web.
So this again, this is different than Sonnet's not web version.
And I'm looking at chat at the same time.
I should probably move this over.
Guessing the characteristics of the audience based not the speaker bio, based on the speaker
bio.
Yeah.
So I think that what it's done is like it's assuming that I want to write content for
the person in the bio.
So it's almost like kind of getting meta where I'm directing the model to write a persuasive
email that would persuade Taylor Bell to hire somebody for copywriting services.
So in that way, I think that it would have been with bio.md for the sake of like the
real world, I would probably make that like my profile MD.
And then I would say like, this is who you're taking the role on of.
So there's that idea of like when you prompt that you give a context and a role and a task
and constraints.
So on this audience profile from Gemini, now it's called the strategic innovator.
So demographics, psychographics, forward thinking, analytical and results driven.
Yep.
It's kind of funny to read in AI write this stuff about you based on just a few bullet
points of your background.
But this is again, like these are things that like these values, this is something that
could be leveraged into that kind of emotional side of connecting.
And then again, this is same idea with Sonnet and comparing the comparing the three of what
kind of sections show up.
These are all like really good like signposts.
Ian asks, have you tried using cursor rules for these things instead?
Have I got a slide for you?
Yes.
The answer is yes.
Here's a screenshot that I took of cursor doing that.
This shows that it's that it's searching the web.
So it looked for how to write a speaker bio bio examples.
So very cool thing.
So that is the rest of that part of the repo.
And now back to the slide.
Cursor rules for AI interaction.
How about that?
So cursor rules.
Cursor has a special folder dot cursor slash rules directory.
And these are things that you can this rules are read automatically when launching cursor.
It has access to them.
It doesn't necessarily use them unless you tell it to when creating rules.
You can have it applied to every chat and edit that you make.
You can set it to match certain globs.
In this case, MD is the right thing.
Agent requested tells the agent to decide when it applies or not, which we'll take a
look at.
And then manual would you would have to write at rule name in order to apply it.
So when using the we can use the agent to create an audience definition file.
And this is where what Josh was bringing up earlier is where I kind of in the demo, I
conflated the audience versus like writer thing.
There is something that I want to point out that agent is the default interaction mode
now.
I have it set.
It used to be called YOLO mode.
Now it's called auto run.
And you can't see it in the screenshot, but I have RM in my command deny list because
I don't want it to delete stuff.
I will do that myself.
And here is a prompt that here's the prompt that created the the audience profiles that
we looked at.
Let me jump back to to know.
I'll keep talking about rules for a second.
Rules in this case, using rules for for Markdown stuff, it will help us create reusable writing
patterns.
We won't have to put those XML tags of Ada info every time we write helps be consistent
with voice tone style structure.
And they're easy to share and reuse because you can just check them into your repo.
So, we can see here where I've prompted the agent to create the rules based on the content
of the MD files.
And that brings in phase three, which we'll switch to to look at in a second.
And here we were creating rules using the agent that we can then bring in and and call
up.
So now once the rules are in place, we have an Ada rule in place that Ada rules in place
where we can use that same Ada name drop prompt that we used earlier.
And you can see here that cursor has brought in the rules to make it happen.
Let's switch back.
I think I resize the window.
Does it still look all right?
I can put it back where it was.
GCO phase three rules creation.
OK, so close some of this looks fine.
Cool.
So, on the other side of dot cursor, I have created separate rule files for the audience
profile.
And so this is one of the markdown files that that I showed earlier.
If it looks fine at both, I'll make it a little bit bigger.
So, this is the demographic psychographic stuff.
So, this is audience profile and MDC.
This one's auto attached.
So, every in this project, in this particular project, every prompt that is made will include
the audience profile.
So, we set up separate rules like with help from the agent, as we saw in the screenshot
earlier, set up separate rules for action, attention, desire, and interest.
So, what we did here is this goes further than the XML that we provided.
So, this was the agent used this, searched the web, found additional like action stuff.
Here it gave examples of technical CTAs and alternatives.
Again, this is all totally machine written.
You would in the real world write this stuff yourself.
It kind of demonstrates like this is now what?
Probably a page and a half about just the action part.
So that's pretty cool.
Then with the rules, we can see that let's compare the sonnet one to the brief explanation.
Yeah.
So, sample file with the rules.
Yeah.
I'll share a link to the GitHub repo afterwards.
And yeah, it will have all these files in it.
You will have to know how to change branches, but you can ask the chat that, huh?
Okay.
So, remember how short this ADA with a brief explanation.
So the prompt when we had the XML versus with the rules, and this is the same model.
It's still a pretty short email, but it's a little bit, it feels a little bit better.
Again, I can't say it enough.
Don't ever send something without editing it fully.
Please don't.
That's 3.5 versus 3.7.
So 3.7 here on the left.
Almost the same.
So it still brings in that, oh, this time it's 78% instead of 73.
Don't know where these stats come from, but you can see that it kind of gives an example
of what I've done as a copywriter, which again, I haven't done, but not to belabor the point.
I'll switch back to the slides now.
Is this making sense for people?
I feel like I'm talking really fast, and maybe too much, but not enough.
But really, the practical workflow that we've done here, and the one that I follow generally,
is research phase.
So the audience, the scope, the goals.
What are you trying to do with the piece of content that you're creating?
The rule creation, again, style, tone, and structure.
Advice on email length, short, yes.
So after you create the rules, and the rules should hold for most of your projects, generate
content iteratively.
What we didn't do in the demo, and looking at the clock, I don't know if there will be
time.
I almost always start with an outline.
I did not start with an outline in the demo, but what I would do is I would say, since
we have rules for action, interest, desire, attention is first, rather, I would say, based
on these rules, here's my goal, this is my audience, outline something with each letter
of the way.
And then refine and rewrite.
You got to edit the generated content.
It needs to feel like you wrote it, and by you, I mean you, a human being.
There's so many things where even in papers on archive and stuff, it's like, why are you
using all these 30-letter words?
It's not necessary.
And there's so much more to talk about.
Email me to chat whenever, taylor at Copywriting.dev.
But some of these might have come up in the chat.
I feel like I saw some, but questions about prompt management, so templates, content development,
repo structures, editing practices to find your voice, tone, and style, workflow automation
and tooling.
I've scripted most of this stuff out.
Lots of research.
I call it agent-ish, because I very much am a fan of human in the loop.
I don't know if I mentioned that enough.
So that's the presentation.
I guess we'll do some Q&A, maybe some more live demo.
I didn't realize how long I talked for already.
Should I scroll back through?
I think we can just jump into some of the questions first and then see if anyone is
interested in...
Okay.
Let me stop sharing.
Stop sharing the screen.
I'll share answers and stuff.
Sounds good.
Sounds good.
I mean, I have an opinion on this, but I'm curious what your thoughts are on this.
What are the main advantages of using Cursor over a custom GPT or cloud project?
So I spend a lot of time in VS Code before Cursor even came out.
There's just so many more.
Having a development background in particular, I'm predisposed to using a development tool
with things like even just using Vim mode.
I mash, escape a lot.
And so there's things that just don't translate for me in a browser.
But that's kind of what the beauty about this workflow, this general workflow of iteratively
changing the prompt structure, that will work in chat GPT UI.
It will work on writer.com or whatever it is.
It will work anywhere.
And so really, even though this demo was about Cursor, it also is more actually about the
workflow and the strategy behind prompting towards copywriting rather than...
You can dig a hole with a screwdriver.
It probably won't work that well.
My mom used to build furniture when I was a kid with a meat tenderizer and a butter knife.
And we eventually got actual tools.
But really, it's like, that's what that jobs to be done theory is.
It's like, what's the thing you actually want to do?
Hopefully that answers that a bit.
This is a question.
I mean, I have some examples of my own, but what would be some examples for you on a non-no question?
A non-no question.
When was the last time is a good one.
There used to be one that's taken out of context.
It wouldn't sound good.
It's like, do you still?
Like, do you still you could say no to?
I'm changing.
I'm not going to say the thing out loud that I thought I was going to say out loud.
When was the last time?
How often?
Where do you?
How do you?
Anything that like, are you having trouble converting leads?
Nope.
Next email.
Like anything that like you can't nope out of immediately.
That's like a question like that.
But you said you have some like what are some of yours?
Yeah, I mean, the one I have, especially because oftentimes I my issue is once I get the first call, they sort of ignore future calls.
And so if I know what their concerns are, the question I like to ask is, are you still committed to result people?
For example, if people want to learn more about consulting and then they stop replying to emails like, hey, are you still concerned?
You could say you could say you could say no to that, though.
So the way that I might reframe that is where have your priorities shifted to?
Or like, it looks like your priorities have shifted.
Like instead of asking them, just say, it seems that you're not committed to this anymore.
Instead of are you still committed?
Well, yeah, but you know, I got busy.
But like, it seems you don't care.
Like something like that is well, it's not even a question anymore.
So I guess it doesn't fully fit the brief.
But that makes sense.
I definitely want to love to have like a swipe file for some of these non no questions.
That is a very good idea.
Swipe file for for the folks at home.
That is when you find pieces of content or advertisements or emails or anything that like resonated with you.
I like to think of it as like this thing got me to buy something.
So I want to take this and understand the structure of what it was.
And so that's where kind of in the demo of where it's like here's the email where, you know, Jim and I put like attention interest.
Do that on your own with stuff that you read.
Like, what is it that that made you resonate with a particular piece of content?
And then it's you kind of make your own template from there almost like then.
Yeah, it's a swipe because you swiped it from somebody else and you swipe structure, not not wording as much as possible.
Sweet. This is a question.
I mean, I have opinions as well.
But one of the questions is for cold outbound, is it a good idea to include a calendar link for convenience or wait for them to apply before scheduling?
Why don't you answer this one?
I think this one's more directly applicable for.
Yeah, I mean, to me, it's like I just want to reduce as much friction as possible.
And it really depends on how much inbound I'm getting.
Right. So if I have no inbound, I'm probably going to be reaching out to people, including the kind of link.
If I have a lot more inbound, maybe I am just reaching out to people who are very interested.
In which case, if they're all just really important people, I'll still include the kind of link.
I'm spamming 10000 emails, but that might not be something I would do as much.
I mostly think about it as just what what are the friction points I'm trying to introduce to get the customers I want?
Yeah, I think I'm in line with that.
I think that that knowing the scope of your of how how many people are you trying to send a calendar link to?
So, yeah, like most questions in development, the answer is it depends.
But, yeah, I think, Jason, I think you had it right right on for for this particular scenario.
Another question, I think I'm curious as well to hear from you is if you could change a couple of things about cursor in terms of copywriting, what would you what would you change?
Oh, see, that's interesting.
I think that one of the things that that I would change about cursor in general and this like it extends to writing also is I don't know if you all follow the Reddit,
but like there's a lot of people who almost take personal offense to changes in the in the UI and the behavior of the agent.
I've had things where it will change stuff in files that has nothing to do with what I was just doing or it will undo stuff that I put back or I'll or I'll reject certain things and not other things.
So I think that some sort of so it has it has like the restore checkpoints feature.
But then I want something that's between the timeline of what you changed and that local history and get and restore to a checkpoint.
Like, sometimes I feel like the the undo isn't as undo as it should be.
Like, I kind of want to go back to the red green a little bit easier sometimes, but still have the ability to edit a green thing would be nice.
But yeah, so I guess that would be it.
I guess just like the file changing stuff.
Have you tried using things like windsurf?
I have not tried windsurf yet.
I would I'm interested in in kind of applying the same process.
I actually thought about doing some sort of like a like a shootout where I do the same thing across like Klein windsurf Rue code or whatever it's called.
It's just Rue maybe.
But yeah, there's I haven't yet.
The short answer is no.
That was that was a yes or no question.
And I could have I mean, I've been using cloud code and it's actually been really, really good.
How much are you spending on it?
I spend like two hundred dollars a week.
Yeah, so I don't.
I'm doing my 20.
I have like I have like hours and hours of seminars and lectures I got to go through this like or materials.
It's been like it is it is pretty incredible.
And really, like it's it's all like you stuff.
So like I haven't really I haven't delved into the world of Claude code yet.
I would never I would never write that for the record.
But like it's the fact that it's 200 bucks, like it's really easy to be like 200 books.
And it's like I spent more than that on beer last month.
So like maybe not actually.
No, not last month.
But I but I have before.
The point is expense is like what's your time worth?
Basically.
Exactly, exactly.
Maybe you can end it with this question here.
So do you have any plugins you use to make your experience with slide slide up even better?
It was just slide up and cursor.
Yeah. So it's funny is this is the first time I've really used it.
And I haven't I didn't install any plug in plugins for it.
I am using the never night theme, something.
But it's been really fun to write slides and markdown because as as I'm sure everybody knows by now,
like I spend a lot of time writing markdown.
I think that my my tip for the slides is slide.
So slide dev lets you have a slides dot markdown file dot MD where you import slides instead of writing it all in one giant file.
So I would say write your slide separately.
But yeah, I didn't really do too much generation on the slides.
I kind of knew what I what I wanted to do.
But I use the cursor docs feature to help me like kind of rearrange stuff.
I'd never written view before.
And some of the you don't really have to write that much view.
But there's some I come from react land.
It's just like some of the stuff's a little different.
But yeah, that's awesome.
I think with five minutes left, we can probably wrap this up just because I also have to prepare for another meeting right after this.
But do you want to just share maybe your contact information one more time and then we can make sure that we include everything on the follow up email.
Yeah, you can find me at Copywriting.dev.
It's just a simple landing page right now.
I really want to talk about this stuff more.
This is the first time I've really been able to talk out loud about it.
I come from like a back like from being behind the scenes.
Copywriting.dev, Taylor at Copywriting.dev is my email for that.
I'm on Twitter at at Taylor Bell.
I don't tweet very much and I delete a lot of tweets five minutes after writing them.
But yeah, I think that's probably the easiest spot.
Writing me an email about whatever like this is like obviously I like talking about this stuff and clearly very excitable.
I need to work on my SEO. Yes, I do.
And that landing page is a ConvertKit landing page that I just put up like three weeks ago.
But yes, I will work on the SEO and I got lots of stuff to write about.
Awesome. Thank you, everyone.
Cool. Yeah. Thanks, everybody. See you around.
Take care.
