Hey, in this episode of improving rag applications, I'm excited to
invite Joe Burgum, a distinguished engineer at Vespa AI to talk about
the importance of building custom evaluations for rag applications.
He explains why off the shelf models and academic benchmarks might not
generalize to your specific use cases and provides a step-by-step guide
on creating personalized relevancy data sets.
So you get some feeling about some method or technique.
The way you can do this is that you're building your own relevancy data set.
He also answers the question that's been on everyone's mind.
Can we actually train language models as a judge?
We can actually calibrate on using a large language model as a judge and
align that prompt with the human preference that we find from the
golden set on the human evaluation.
He also mentions the often missing baseline.
The M25 is actually a pretty solid baseline.
It also avoids the fixed vocabulary of transformer models because they
cannot learn representations of just if you're adding random words, random
like a product or a zip code.
My name is Joe Christen Burgum and I work at Vespa AI as a distinguished engineer.
I actually had been working on Vespa and with the Vespa team since 2007.
As you can see, I'm quite old and gray, not like you youngsters.
I've been doing this for some time and I'm going to talk a little about building
evals for information achiever.
Like I love the title of your course, this systematically improving rag.
And in this talk about how we can go about building evals for the R step.
So, so I guess I'll just jump right into it.
You can drop the messages.
I will have plenty of time, actually, because Benjamin is not joining.
So I'll leave plenty of room to ask any questions you like.
I have a lot of knowledge about both dense retrieval, vector,
multi vector, beam 25, I might throw in a whole take as well.
So keep a good size chunk for, for questions on basically anything.
So, yeah.
So this talk is building evals.
Yeah.
I'm a distinguished engineer.
In my spare time, I post memes to Twitter.
So, oh, and this talk, I'll talk a little bit about retrieving information
into the large language model prompt or the vision-like large language model.
The R in rag and evolutions and how you can go about building your own evalations
so that you can impress your CTO or maybe you are even the CTO.
So, and rag, of course, most of you are familiar with this.
You threaten the model to perform some action and we want to use retrieval
system to retrieve up-to-date context so that we can stuff into the prompt.
The prompt context limits are now longer, but still we can only about fit
about eight megabytes of text still like with Gemini Flash and Gemini Pro
we have 1 million context lines.
So it's about eight megabytes of text.
So I still think that retrieval is useful.
In this example, it's not a classical rag, but you can use retrieval to
find context-sensitive examples.
If an employee is doing classification, I'm actually quite excited about that.
I wrote a blog post about that a few days ago or a few weeks ago, sorry, but
you use retrieval as a technique for finding context-sensitive examples when
you're doing in-context learning.
But most of our excited about rag is in the context of question answering, where
you're using some retrieval system to retrieve information and then perform
question answering.
And that was also the original concept of rag introduced, I think around 2020, 2021.
But any case, these techniques that I'll talk about later and evaluations really
independent of what you're using your rag part of your platform.
Reference architecture, people talk about vector databases, search engines,
et cetera, et cetera, but the kind of overall is that you have some kind of,
or you have some language models, some prompting, maybe you have some routing.
In this case, it will be like high level.
I won't go into settling chroma or selling VESPA or selling elastic
search or whatnot, so you can pretty much use any of those for a retrieval system.
All right.
So when I talk about retrieval system, could mean anything or any type of method.
And these systems produce some output and each of the steps you can add at each
of the steps independently or the full chain.
Yeah.
So that's interesting.
And unfortunately there's a lot of complexity involved in rag and every
day there's a new thread on Twitter, like new model, new large language model,
disk capabilities, this view tree, some other advanced techniques you need to
learn about new 7 billion embedding model.
So there's a lot, a lot of stuff going on and you might be tempted to try this
and that and maybe change the vector, maybe use PG vector or use sparring
coin or lance DB or VESPA or whatnot.
So there are a lot of types, dev rels going around trying to sell different
techniques and so there's a lot of things that is going on and, but the
R component in, in rag is really about information retrieval and information
retrieval is basically the process of obtaining some relevant information
based on the information need expressed into a textual query around brushing.
And this is like a huge field of research that has been basically occupying
some of the brightest minds in computer science for decades, like I'm thinking
about Google, Facebook, Bing, Microsoft, both in search systems, but also in
recommender system, right?
So there are a lot of people that has put a lot of years and effort into
this entirely new field.
And when you have this kind of retrieval system, and if we think about the slide
that I had earlier on, like any kind of system, like if it's a file, if it's
numPo, it doesn't matter, but you have some into query and this retrieval system
might do multiple different steps, query planning, query unwind, embeddings,
whatnot.
We abstract that away.
In essence, you input a query to this system and you get back a
ranked list of documents.
That's the kind of core.
And then we can look at the documents that we get back from this system for a
given query, and then we can basically judge these, are they the documents that
are retrieved, are they relevant for the query?
And then typically we could have like binary judgments saying that, oh, is it
relevant or irrelevant, or we can have some kind of graded labeling schema where
you can say that, oh, this, this passage is actually, or document is actually very
relevant for the question.
It fully answers the questions or it's slightly relevant or maybe it's irrelevant
or it's so bad that my boss will fire me.
So they're like, you can have this type of graded systems, graded evaluation of me.
Ham, he put out this tweet that got my interest.
I think it was actually yesterday.
And grading relevancies is not trivial.
Right.
So Google has their search engine quality evaluation guidelines.
This is a PDF with a hundred pages that they give out to the human evaluators that
are evaluating their search results.
Going into what is relevance, how should you judge the results and judge them on
this scale and so forth.
It's not that trivial actually too.
And also the relevancy is subjective because if you're looking at the query log
and someone searched for Apple, and then you're asked to judge a set of results
coming back from our retrieval engine, we don't actually know what that given user
was looking for, right?
Because it could mean the fruit, it could mean the company, right?
And when that user is getting back information from the retrieval engine and he
meant the fruit, but he got back to the company, he might be judging the
results as irrelevant, right?
So relevancy is subjective.
So there's, there's very hard to have like one ground truth.
And typically when they're editing these systems, if you have two humans, they
might disagree or, or over the relevancy of a given query, right?
And you have that kind of graded or relevancy judgments for query and
document pairs, we can run some evaluations to say something about how
good the retrieval system is at retrieving relevant information for a given query.
And to do that in academia, there are a set of information retrieval data sets.
Trek conferences be going for, I don't know, 20 years, spanning decades with
various interests from new search to search at large scale and so forth.
So multiple different tasks.
Ms. Marco, Pasadue and document ranking is a large relevancy data set that
was released by Bing, the was like around 2018, 2019, and it's one of the biggest
data set that is also used to both evaluate methods, but also use this data
for training retrieval models to learn how to retrieve an algorithm.
The beer benchmark is also very popular to add models and the focus there is to
take a given model or retrieval model, be it embedding or be it by BM 25 or BM 42.
Doesn't matter.
You can evaluate in a zero shot man.
And by zero shot, I'm meaning that you haven't been exposed to any of the
training data in those collections.
You're basically taking your model, indexing the documents, and then
evaluating the system in a zero shot.
And then there's a set of ranking metrics, which tries to measure
how well this retrieval system.
And typically we have Rico at K.
So we have a depth of the ranking list that we're looking at.
So K equals 10 would be to only consider the 10 first documents or
texts and passages or whatnot returned by the retrieval system.
And I typically say that, okay, Rico at K actually measures, are you getting all
the relevant results that you have in the collection, but in a large collection,
you might not know all of the documents that are relevant for a query.
So Rico at K is typically in, there's some level of discussion around Rico at K,
some what it means and so forth.
So, but it's essentially information with GVL.
It's about if you have a set of annotated documents that are at a certain
relevance label, you're measuring if the system is able to retrieve all those.
Precision at K is about removing irrelevant results so that you're
presenting nothing but relevant results in the first K-giver positions.
Then G is a complex metric, more complex.
It takes into account the graded relevancy labels.
So if we use a graded schema where you say irrelevant, center-relevant or
higher relevant, and this G tries to measure that, so if you're placing a
very relevant result in position one, you get a perfect score, and if you're
placing the perfect result further down, you get a decay.
Also you have reciprocal rank and also maybe the most common one, which is
at GTBM, which is looks good to me.
And we want to kind of move away from that.
And in the industry, of course, it's not only about relevancy, but there's
also metrics and feedback like click, dwell time, e-commerce, it will be
like add to chart, of course, e-commerce revenue is important.
And in those systems, typically we have multiple objectives.
So you want to optimize relevancy, but at the same time, you might want to
also optimize revenue or time spent on your stock and so forth.
And importantly, when you are looking at M for beer or these kinds of benchmarks,
each of the queries are weighted the same way.
So that means it doesn't take into account the frequency of the queries.
So in your system, you might have some queries that are more
popular than others, right?
So typically these follows like an 80-20 distribution, where just a few
20% of the unique queries are maybe 80% of the total one.
So when you're sampling systems and building evals, you should take
that into account as well.
And of course, like your CEO is likely to, to search for.
Hey, are your rag applications falling short, despite using
the latest frameworks and models?
You're not alone.
I'm Jason Liu and I've helped a dozen companies improve their AI applications.
I've developed a systematic approach that delivers results.
If you want to check it out, join my free six-week email course and learn the
techniques I use in my own consulting practice.
That way you can stop guessing at what works and measure what matters.
Just check out improving rag.com.
So to try to do better than looks good to me, the dirty secret that they've
been hiding from you is to try to measure.
But in order to measure, you should try to build your own evaluation data set.
And that's the main portion of my, my talk.
And also when we're looking at Twitter hype or MTab or what have you, it doesn't
necessarily generalize to yours, particular use case, right?
I know a lot of you are building rag in different contexts.
Finance might be shopping.
It might be in academic sense.
It's not so likely that the MTab score.
Translates directly to your delay.
Right.
So to get some feeling about some method or technique, the way you can do this is
that you're building your own relevant citizen.
The motivation is that, as I said, those models that are trained on different types
of data might not generalize to you, your queries or your documents and off the
shelf models might also not generalize to your case.
And typically what we see based on the last year is that many of these models
being trained in a way that they are performing well on the MTab, the massive
text embedding benchmark or beer, meaning that when you apply it to your specific
use case, they might not perform so well.
And if we have this kind of evaluation data set, this allows us to do kind
of quicker iteration if we want to change some parameter, if you want to change
embedding, or if you want to change the way we're doing retrieval, if we want to
add a re-ranking to the makes if we want to do a query, it will allow you to do a
quicker evaluation and actually get feedback from this relevant simulation data set
that you built.
And this step actually has three simple steps.
Simple steps.
I mean, and the first one is the one where you have to come up with queries and run
these queries against a retrieval system and get them.
You could do it, or you can have a domain expert for what you're building for the
use case you're building for, if you're building for healthcare or health
information and things like that, you might want to have a domain expert.
And after we've done that, we can actually calibrate on using a large language model
as a judge and align that prompt with the human preference that we find from the
golden set on the human evaluation.
And then once we have that, we can actually start using kind of a prompt to
rate more data and build a larger data set.
So I'll go more into details on these three steps.
Yeah.
So this work or my talk here is not come out of thin air.
There's been a lot of research over the last two years on this and use a large
language model as a judge for relevancy.
And most of the research finds that the frontier models can actually accurately
predict the structure preferences, but we need still to collaborate that with our
domain expert in our data.
So we kind of entirely trust that if we just let the large language model with
this given prompt, that it will evaluate it perfectly with our golden set.
So we need the first step and the second step to kind of calibrate things and
align it with our human preferences.
And once we have that, it allows us to expand this kind of training data,
expand the training set.
And then finally, we can also use this to further improve to for fine tuning.
I know people are talking about funding models or rewrite their suit allows.
Not only the system, but also to improve the system and
umbrella is also very recent work.
The umbrella paper and the method there that they're proposing, that's going to
be used actually to evaluate ongoing track, the retrieval conference topic,
which is about rag, actually.
That's going to be exciting to see what kind of techniques will actually be
working well, I mean, in this, and they will actually use a large language
models as a judge.
So, and, but how do you get about and start bootstrapping this relevant data set?
So this relevant data set consists of a query and the document and the relevancy
label, so it's quite simple.
It's a triple.
And if you already have real traffic, but you can sample queries from
your production traffic, preferably with them starting with head traffic.
So most opera queries are the middle.
At least that's, that's a good starting point.
Don't have traffic.
You can ask a large language model to generate queries for your content.
So you take all of the content and generate questions, but it's also
not so easy to get that right.
So preferred traffic, if you actually have traffic and it, this process
doesn't need to be fancy.
You don't need any fancy tools for this, right?
You can just jump this into a simple tab, separate and fire.
Right.
So, and you have to choose if you have grades, you want to grade the results.
I find that I'm sure relevance is on the great and Google and most
of the people are using that.
So I think that's great.
You can also kind of try to write down your thoughts about how to
evaluate the relevancy.
The PDF that I linked to earlier with Google guidelines, because those
kind of guidelines, you can also add to the prompt when you are instructing
the large language models to evaluate the relevance for you.
Once you have that data and you can start analyzing and you have your kind
of Google group data set with the relevancy label for each of these
query and document pairs, then you can ask the large language model to also
grade using the kind of system level instructions that I previously shown.
And then you can see if they align.
So this is our confusion matrix and it's called that because all of us get
confused when they see it and take a rundown of it.
So human label on the, on the left, on the Y axis.
So we have zero one two, right?
So this is the assignment by the, by the human and on the X axis, we have GPT-4 label.
So if you see on the upper left, there are 10 very document pairs where there
is agreement between the human label and the GPT-4 label.
And there is one item up to the upper right where the human has assigned that
this document is irrelevant while the GPT has assigned it a label of two,
meaning that it's highly relevant.
So there is those, the strong.
However, also when you look at further down to the right, you have where the
human has assigned the relevancy score of two and the GPT-4 label assigned by
GPT is also true to the 30 of those.
This is not a great result in terms of accuracy, but what we're using this for
is to judging a system to run for ranking.
In this graph, we actually show that there is a strong correlation between how
the human will judge the result versus the GPT-4 judgment.
Each of these blue line, blue dots are points that measures a given retrieval
method, the way of ranking the results and the average of all these queries.
When it's being ranked by the system, and then we evaluate it with either
the human judgment or the GPT judgment.
And here we can see that if we got a good score from the human on the ranking run,
we also get a good score by using the GPT labels.
This is quite promising because it also demonstrates that we can actually use
this calibrated model to evaluate the results.
And once we have that, we can actually start sampling more data.
So if we started with the golden set, which is relatively small, we can now
start to evaluate more data from production because we have the calibrated
prompt, so now we can actually use that data to get relevancy labels for more
data, right?
And more data is better because then we are measuring more.
So this allows you then to grow this golden set and this relevancy data set.
You can use them to tweak your retrieval system and then you can measure, for
example, NT and you can also use this evaluation to train models and also to
kind of use those type of label data to further refine and fine tune your
retrieval and ranking pipeline.
And by doing that, you can then end up where you can, instead of saying that,
yeah, we changed something for a retrieval, we can say that, okay, we actually
deploy the change that increases MGZD by such and such for this type of queries.
Right.
Because here there's like different retrieval methods and we have measured
how well they're doing using, ignore what type of method it is, right?
Because this will be different for your domain.
But the point is that then you can add these different methods or different
types of way of doing it.
And then you can actually deploy that and actually have before you actually put
it into production, have GPDT evaluate the results.
So I'm very excited about this.
And there's also, of course, now that you can use large language models as a judge,
you can also use large language models as rankers, right?
So if you have aligned the prompt, you can also use this to, if you can afford it,
also allow the large language models to actually rank the documents, right?
So first you can use the retrieval phase, then also use the large language
models to rank the documents and file.
So answer the question if that's the kind of task that you are building rank for.
So, and the motivation for having these kinds of representations in
information retrieval, we was talking about sparse representations of
queries and texts or documents.
For example, you might heard of BM25, the traditional keyword scouring used in
popular search engines like Elastic also in Vespa is that typically you want to
avoid scoring all the documents in your collection, right?
So if you have a collection of documents, you can basically do a
grep or iterate through all of them.
Take the query, run some scoring function, sort them by this score, and then you
have your top K ranked docs, right?
But if you have billions of documents or millions of large documents, this is
not very efficient in terms of compute.
You can distribute and get latency down, but it is simply not so efficient.
So we want to try to have some kind of index that can, allows us to kind of
add some pre-processing steps, then we can run the query and do this scoring
function, but without having to score every single document.
So this is what information with Chewool is so focused about building
these kinds of representations.
And one example of representation is of course, text embedding, where you embed,
many of you are familiar with OpenAI, Cohedair, et cetera, et cetera.
Those are typically called dense representations, but there are also
sparse representations where you can use like classical data structures that's
been around for a long time, like the inverted index, then you can accelerate
the search using this kind of sparse representation, using various dynamic
pruning algorithms, for example, WAND is one of them, BM1 that are multiple.
Then you have, and these basically are unsupervised, most of them, like
BM25 is unsupervised, but it's still kind of analysis your corpus because it
builds this TF IDF model of your data.
So we kind of know switch off the, what are the important words, but it's still
treating the tech as a bag of words.
Then you have more advanced methods that are more recent, that's also using neural
networks where you can use supervision, meaning that if you have training data,
and you can actually learn the importance of the words in the context of the other words.
You use a transformer model for this typically.
And there you have supervised representations.
Then you have dense representations, vector search embedding, what not.
Similar here to accelerate the search.
You can build a vector index, there are multiple different algorithms,
the vector databases that are specializing in this with different techniques.
Here you can accelerate the search, but you also introduce an error by doing that.
You are introducing an approximate.
So in order to accelerate, to avoid scoring all the documents, then you will
lose some precision, meaning that you might not actually retrieve the relevant
result because of this error that you're introducing.
And these are mainly using transfer learning, meaning that you're
taking an embedding model, you're not fine tuning it.
And you're just using it for your domain.
And this is popular, right?
So you can open AI, I think open AI really made the text embedding
retrieval or embedding retrieval, like commodity or a lot of developers
outside of the information, which we will see are circles.
And you'll represent this in this latent space and this vector embedding space.
And then the score is simply the call-line similarity.
Of course, if you have a small amount of vectors, it doesn't really
matter what kind of technique you're using, you can use Navi or whatnot.
Right.
Because root for searching this data, it doesn't take a lot of time.
And there's some challenges with this.
So under the group of text embedding models, most of them are using
an encoder based model like BERT.
And each of the input words in the query are represented as a contextualized
vector in the output layer.
But then since you want to kind of reduce space, you pull this into one vector.
So you lose some information by doing this, right?
Transforming the input into one vector.
You do this for the query and you do this for the document and you no longer
have any kind of attention between the query tokens and the document tokens.
You're just looking at the vector representation.
And most of these have context-length limits.
So you need to chunk.
And even if the app allow you to input a longer text, the longer the text is,
obviously because of this pooling step, the representation, the vector
representation becomes more diluted.
And in order to have great representations for retrieval, you
need training data, labeled data.
So when you're taking an embedding model of the shell, like OpenAI, and you're
not doing anything with that model for your domain, right?
Then that formant of that model heavily depends on what the data it was trained
on, because that will determine how well that generalizes to your type of queries,
your type of documents.
And BM-25 is a simple algorithm.
So research on beer and many other benchmarks shows that BM-25, the
traditional keyword matching method has plenty of limitations.
It also provides you a very simple out of the box baseline.
It's cheap, small.
There are also more recent Python friendly libraries that can do this.
But in my experience, it's a very good baseline.
There's a lot of different techniques and so forth, but BM-25 is actually
a pretty solid baseline.
It also avoids the fixed vocabulary of transformer models because they cannot
learn representations of just, if you're adding random words, random, like a
product or a zip code, they haven't learned a good representation of that.
So with a traditional keyword search, you avoid these kind of
spectacular failure cases.
Like broccoli, actually tokenized into multiple tokens, like bro, for, so you
might get really weird results sometimes.
Yeah.
I'm for a long context when you basically want to retrieve over maybe
documents that are longer, we do see that simple BM-25, ignore the
Colbert stuff for now, but a simple BM-25 baseline actually out of forms,
models that, at least on this benchmark, on actually documents that are quite long,
in this case, 2000 tokens.
So here actually the simple baseline works much better than models that are
quite expensive, both to run interference with and also expensive because of the
vector storage and also to search this large vector representation.
And yeah, of course, if you're using like engines that are capable of
combining these into hybrid, you can combine both and supervised representations
and also sparse representations or the BM-25 starting point.
But hybrid search also, a lot of people mean different things when they talk
about hybrids, so it's also not a single, simple bullet, but going back to the
original talk, if you take the time to do this actually exercise, to build your own
relevance in data set, then you can actually decide that, Hey, I'm just
going to stick with B5, that works great for my use case, or opening is actually
a lot better for my use case.
Or if I'm adding a hybrid boost here, I'm actually getting better results, right?
So that allows you to take these kinds of decisions without listening to me or
listening to other hypes or dev rels, hyping up this model or that model, right?
It gives you the confidence and the tool to actually improve retrieval without just
listening to whatever people are saying on Twitter or like me saying something.
That's the thing I want to, even if there are multiple different methods.
Yes, I'm excited about Colbert, I'm excited about visual representations,
called Pali and so forth.
And, but having this evaluation data sets allows you to take informed decisions
and then finally systematically improving retrieval.
And if you see an article like, Hey, we do this, this technique where you rewrite
the query using the large language model.
Okay.
That sounds interesting, right?
But you can just plug that into your pipeline then, and then evaluate and see,
Oh, that actually brings some improvement to my use case or no, it doesn't make any
sense because it's not improving anything.
And I'm adding 500 milliseconds of latency and cost to my pipeline.
So that's, that's basically what I had.
Thanks for watching.
If you liked that video, make sure to like, and subscribe.
And if you want to learn more, check out improvingrag.com.
We're going to talk about the foundations and not frameworks.
Over six emails, you're going to learn how to overcome absence blindness, as well
as how to fine tune language models, understanding diverse query types, improving
multimodal rag, and ultimately smart question routing and build up UX that
collects user feedback.
Just check out improvingrag.com and fill out this quick email address at the bottom.
Thanks.
