Hey everyone, we've been trying to figure out whether people like breakout rooms.
Cause sometimes I see really positive feedback and other times I see sort of
negative feedback and this time since we, I specifically said in Slack for those who
saw it, like you could join in halfway in between, maybe this is our measure of how
many people are in each camp, but hopefully everyone here actively finds breakout
rooms valuable, got a thumbs up.
I also need to find a way to tile the, the video so that I can see how many
thumbs up I'm getting, huh?
There we go.
All right.
All right.
It's three past.
I think everyone has seen the prompt in Slack.
Uh, I think that that makes sense, but just to give it another one minute voiceover.
There are many ways you could create synthetic data.
And if you have a good theory as to what makes for a good match between a query
and your desired response, then you can make good synthetic data to fine tune on.
And then Jason gave that example of one person says, I like coffee.
We want person says I hate coffee and in some embedding space, how far apart should
those be?
Well, it depends on in reality for your specific product, do those people tend to
get along and match well, or do they match poorly and that depends on the circumstance.
This is somewhere where we are starting to get closer to the conventional machine
learning of we're going to observe from behavior and then we don't exactly know
what the rule is for how it all fits together, but we're going to learn that.
And then it's going to be very customized or specific to exactly your situation.
Being able to do that on an ongoing basis is a big ongoing competitive advantage.
You've got, you're going to have a system that just keeps improving over time.
Even if someone else started a similar service with all the same prompts, if they
don't have the same data flywheel, their service wouldn't be as good as yours, but
it all relies on identifying what are the behaviors that you want to instrument for
or observe that you can then subsequently use in building your fine tuned re-rank or
embedding model.
So question is, or the problem you're working on, or if you don't have a problem
you're working on, I want you to spend a moment thinking about what a product is that
you hope to work on in the near future, and then think about what are the behaviors that
you want to instrument for or capture that could then be part of that data flywheel so
that you can repeatedly build a better model, deliver a better experience, get more
users, collect more data, deliver a better experience and so on.
So with that, I will give you guys a minute to ask questions.
If anyone wants to ask questions, then if not, I will pick off the breakout rooms.
All right.
I'll see you guys in a few minutes.
Sudhir, do you want me to put you in a breakout room or do you want to just wait?
We got to...
Yeah, sorry, I'm late.
If you could just throw me in any random breakout room, that'd be great.
Awesome.
Something with amateurs.
I think everyone else is going to pile into the next 20 seconds, but you can...
Oh, okay.
Okay.
Yeah.
Because I was like, oh, I suddenly...
Okay.
People...
And since we may have people...
Yeah.
Just do quick summaries.
I think we're room one with Jay and Diversion.
In the end, we're discussing like how we can...
What part of the workflow can we log and use as capturing the
actual usage of the results?
No.
Is user retrying the same query, similar queries in the same session?
Do we suggest other queries and are they using and following that?
And for example, in my case, the client even wants to know if somebody could be
pasted, no, copy that is no one of the answer text and I did the way we want to
know if he pasted back in the system somewhere else, no, it's a closed system.
It would be possible to detect that.
So we're kind of looking at things like that.
Some of the usage of our application are more transactional.
No, if you said something, you find it, you buy it, you order it.
It's okay.
That was fine.
If you said something else, no, maybe you can use that as a signal, but it was
basically, you know, what we could know, try to detect that the user is struggling
in doing something, but you don't have quite clear indicators that no specific
query was what he wanted unless he follows up a specific workflow or
it's somehow using the result.
So that was basically the discussion we had around.
Yeah.
I think copy, depending on the circumstance, copy paste button.
It can't really control what they paste, but having the copy button, it's a, a
nice feedback mechanism that you can, that you can monitor.
Cool.
We got room to Darren Dillon, Florian and Seamus.
Yeah.
I'll take this up.
So a lot of the confusion was, well, first of all, to even like
approach fine-tuning or like re-ranker.
It's not something common.
You, you first have to grab all the data.
I was a bit unsure on what's the main approaches.
Like when would you want to fine tune the, like re-ranker instead of maybe
just focusing on fine-tuning the embedding model as much as possible.
When is like the best benefit?
And then the second one was like, how do you, when you got your users data, how
do you actually separate it and actually focus on what is the key aspects of
that data to fine tune for the re-ranker?
So we got Winston through a lot of different case scenarios.
One of the members was talking about how he was looking at for a baseball
team to re-rank what he was calling power.
So he was linking different attributes to it and it was actually not classifying
certain power attributes, which should be included in the re-ranker.
And then he was training it for that to get better results.
But I think a lot of it was just confusion on what points to focus
on, on to fine tune a re-ranker.
It was a bit unclear.
Does that make sense?
Yeah.
I think there are, I'll respond quickly and Jason may as well, and then we'll,
we'll go to the next room after that.
I think there are a few things you said there.
So one is sort of when we collect the data to fine tune a re-ranker, if we're
going to do that, what's the data that we collect?
So it's pairs of what's the request that we want to send to the model of what
do we want to have the first, second, third, and that's obviously very domain specific.
You can see like the, you could see what works in the hardware store example
might be sort of the irrelevant to how you would do it in some legal product.
In terms of what is higher value to fine tune, if you are using a re-ranker,
then the embedding model frequently is just picking one of the top 50 or so
chunks and that's basically where you can cast a wide enough net that I think
the ROI on fine tuning the re-ranker is going to be greater than the embedding
model if you said we're so concerned about latency or cost that we're not
going to use a re-ranker, well, now you've only got one layer and it's obviously
much easier, but my view, which actually is on a project getting a little bit
validated just in the last couple of days is that fine tuning the re-ranker,
if you can figure out what the right data is, is the higher ROI, this too.
I don't know if Jason, if you have something to add.
No, I generally agree in the sense that if your, if your goal is to improve
retrieval as much as possible in the near term, first understand what good
retrieval looks like, if we have that synthetic data, we have these sort of
binary labels, if you use a language model to score things, we can get some
relevance labels, fine tuning the re-ranker is going to be the easiest thing.
You're going to take maybe 500 milliseconds of additional latency, but
you're probably going to see like five to 10% improvements in sort of your baseline
recall.
The only time I would think fine tuning your embedding models would make sense
is if you have much more data, if you have thousands or tens of thousands of
examples of good queries and chunks, or maybe you have thousands of examples of
queries to like tool retrieval, if you have, if you have a multiple different
tasks where you have this kind of relevancy data, and then it might make
sense to think about fine tuning and embedding model, right?
Because now your embedding model cannot only compare whether a question and a
chunk is similar, it's going to be able to compare whether a question and tool
is similar.
And what that actually ends up meaning is that the embeddings for multiple
questions you have, have baked in some of the knowledge of what data is going to
be retrieved and has baked in some knowledge of what kind of tools it needs
or what kind of SQL snippets and whatnot.
And if you go back into week two, where we think about this cluster and topic
modeling in the beginning, this topic modeling doesn't really make any sense.
Cause we're saying, okay, two questions are similar of if open AI tells us they're
similar, what does that mean?
But if you have an embedding model that you fine tune, now two questions are
similar if they need the same tables, they use the same tools, they retrieve
the same data, and so that clustering task also becomes a lot easier.
So it's also very useful in your data analysis, but you only need to do data
analysis if you have tons of data.
And so I think most people are probably not there yet, but the data you collect
now will still give you some progress.
I would say like the, the embedding is something that I think about on like a
multiple month long time scale.
Whereas V-rankers is kind of like a week long project for, for some people on a team.
So do you only use the data that you classify from the user's input, or do
you also classify what it's being retrieved and what the results being sent
back by your original re-ranker?
Like, are you just logging all of that out?
I'm just trying to understand like the best processes for collecting data.
So I have some more questions and I just need to go to other groups.
No, this is great.
It really depends on what can I afford to do.
So if, if one goal, and I'll talk about this more in next week, where I think
about, we think about like how you design UIs to collect more data, but generally.
I would say if you have any signal, maybe, maybe people can star things, right?
Okay.
If someone stars things, let's assume right now that like everything
that is cited is relevant, right?
And if they, if they don't, if they don't start, maybe it's irrelevant.
If I can't afford to give them this like star thumbs up, thumbs down feedback,
maybe the only difference is all the chunks that the language model cites is
relevant and all the chunks I don't cite.
Maybe I'll randomly pick one.
I'll treat that as a hard negative or something like that.
But you can also imagine a situation where like, if you think of Facebook's
people, you may know UI, right?
It kind of shows you five profiles, but it doesn't let you scroll, right?
And so the only way to see another recommendation is to X one out.
And so what that means is if I show you five things and you want to see a sixth
thing, I have to force you to delete something that becomes a hard negative
that I can use to improve my model.
Whereas if I show you 20 people and you scroll around, you add one person,
I only get one positive.
So now you're thinking about how do we design the interactions to collect that
data, but that's something I'll talk a lot more about next week, but there's a
lot of like games you can play in the UX to collect more data.
Oh, perfect.
Appreciate it.
If you send me your example too, I'm happy to jam on, on Slack.
Oh, I'm not that far along.
This is still new for me, but yeah, appreciate it.
Group three?
So I'd be jumping here.
Yeah.
Adam, Dan, Kenji.
We talked a lot about sort of what is the threshold and that would be a helpful
thing is like, Oh, we're all fairly early in the process, so like establishing
data flywheel and all the other things we're talking about is a little bit more
of a future prospect.
It'd be great to have a sort of generalized understanding.
I know it's case by case, but like what's the level of impact in, in sort of the
full pipeline of the different stages?
Like say you were talking about fine tuning, embedding versus fine tuning
the re-ranker.
And then for, for me, it was important to really focus on chunking and cleaning
the text.
It'd be great to have like an understanding of like, what are the
levers to tune at different stages in the process?
Like say you're early, what's the most important thing to focus on cleaning
the data, synthetic data, and then fine tuning or what's, what's the threshold
for these different things?
So the way I would, so if I was to come onto a project and say, okay, let's go
figure out what do we need to improve?
The first thing again is basically all this week one content, right?
I need to see some kind of recall at K metric for your embedding search.
And what I would basically want to look at is, okay, what is recall at 5, 50,
7,400.
And so the first question is, okay, in my embedding search, do I even have a shot
in finding the right information?
Because if you told me recall at a hundred was 80%, but recall at five was 40%.
Okay.
What does this say?
Well, it means that the embedding is working, but there's no way I can bring
the good results higher up.
And then the second constraint might be Jason, I can't afford to put 75 text
chunks.
Okay.
If that's the case, and I know that recall at 75 is very good.
Maybe the answer becomes, let me recall 75 text chunks and pass them into
co-here's re-ranker given that what does the recall at K looks like?
Okay.
Now recall at, so the embedding model had recall at 75 be 90% after the
re-ranker to get 95% recall, I get to choose 20 things.
Right?
So it's like, okay, recall at 20 with the re-ranker is as good as recall with 75.
Okay.
It's going to add 500 more milliseconds of latency.
Can I afford it?
Probably because the context window is so much shorter.
It's going to, it's fine.
Right.
But maybe you realize that, okay, recall at 25 is still not good enough because we
can't afford to put this in because we're actually doing like super large chunks.
Okay.
What can we do to make that better?
We can do two things, right?
We can either play around with the recall of the embedding model or
the recall of the re-ranker.
And generally for me, fine tuning the re-ranker is going to be a little bit easier
because I'm going to have fewer data and I'm going to be able to have more relevancy.
I really just look at like, what is the recall at K across multiple K's of the
embedding model, what are the recalls at K for the re-ranker and tune those
knobs such as, such as it makes sense.
Right?
Cause maybe, maybe 75 documents just takes too much latency for the
length, the re-ranker to re-rank.
Like, man, I can only afford to pass in 45 documents into the re-ranker before
I hit like a one second latency hit.
That would mean I need to go sign distance model.
It's also more of a, maybe this is sort of a domain or company type of thing.
So from the startup side, it's like trying to path find the next
highest leverage point of work.
Yep.
Like we, we done fine tuning a re-ranker in the past.
And then because we're not like out in the world, we're still developing.
We're still building features.
We're still like changing things.
And so the types of things we might actually be re-ranking fundamentally change.
So it's almost that like, we've put that off now as a point of
procedure internally because, okay, well, we're not even sure what we're
going to be feeding the re-ranker in some sense.
So it's more like procedurally what steps make the most sense as your path
finding towards a product that you'd be deploying.
And in our case, we found that like re-ranking goes or fine tuning
in all cases kind of goes last.
Like we have a rig set up to do it, but because models continue to iterate
as we develop, it's also like we're changing and swapping out tooling along the way.
Yeah.
I think that's where the segmentation comes in, right?
It's okay.
Do we have any user data that tells us what people are asking?
That kind of goes back to like the week one and the week two work where in the
construction examples, like, oh man, like we really just need to be way
better at searching contracts.
Like 30% of our queries are contract search queries.
And the people asking these questions are the general contractors.
They're super important to our customer base.
So we want to make sure we serve that segment well.
And I can justify serving that segment well, because we have like
50% recall for these contracts.
We know they're super important and they're 30% of our query usage.
And it's kind of like the data I present to the team, whether it's like the
VP of product and goes, I think we need to spend the next three weeks improving
our ability to do contract search.
This is going to improve 30% of our usage base.
These are our most important customers based on the demographics.
And this is the worst performing thing.
And then it becomes, okay, well, where are the tools?
What are you like?
What kind of capabilities can I build to do that better?
Can I build the routers?
Okay.
Now I have all these evals for the contract thing.
Let me make, let me now fine tune a model.
Can't understand contracts a little bit better.
Do you, do you think there's something that's like stopping you from being able
to do this kind of segmentation work or data analysis to uncover these?
Oh no, we, we, we definitely go down that route.
It's, it's more like we've kind of just avoided the, the fine tuning side
because things change rapidly.
And when we alter how routing works and something just like small like that, all
of a sudden the reranker is faced with a different, yeah.
And yeah, it feels like a more of like, okay, once I have this in front of like
thousands of people and like I'm, I'm running it, then cool, we can improve and
get that last mile 5% improvement or whatever else, and it might actually be
larger than that.
And I guess that was sort of the original query is like, if you were to put like a,
I mean, this is sort of an impossible task, but like level of importance, like
10% on fine tuning for your reranker and sanitizing the data with chunking and
then segmentation, what would be sort of the, the level of importance so that we
can, I guess, half find more effectively?
Yeah.
I mean, I think reranking, fine tuning, that kind of stuff, that's the stuff that
gets you maybe like a 5, 10% improvement in recall, really the bulk of your
improvements are the new capabilities you develop, right?
It's like the door shot example where there's just like no Greek restaurants.
If you just sign up more Greek restaurants, you'd solve that problem.
It's not really an AI problem.
And there, that's almost like a, it either doesn't work or you can make some
simplifying assumptions that allows you to build a search index that does make it
work.
And then the only thing you can figure out is, okay, the numbers you're looking at
isn't whether or not it's going to work like 2% better or 5% better, isn't it
going to be whether it works at all?
And then if you go back to the segmentation, it's going to be, well,
percentage of the population could benefit from this working at all.
So I would still really push towards basically looking at the segments first
and using that to justify new capabilities.
And if you build a new capability and it's like 80% and you wish it was 90%,
that's where you can think of like the fine tuning step.
But anyway, the bulk of the work is really figuring out at least in the
construction example, figuring out that we were really underserving our ability
to understand contracts.
It was less of the abstraction layer of like we needed to chunk things better.
And it was less of a layer that we need to rerank contracts better.
But it was just, oh, people were asking about like science day.
We had that, that is the work to be done.
Yeah.
We're just like, we don't say you're pre-users, right?
We're not segmenting user queries.
We're just sort of, I mean, we tried to do this funny thing and it was, it's
kind of amusing.
We made fake users with an LLM.
Just like, here, you're this demographic and this is a tool.
What kind of questions would you ask?
And like tried some things like that to just generate a fake data set of, of
like fake users and user queries.
But it seems so ungrounded that like, it was hard to say like, okay, this is
worth, okay, the LLM thinks this is a good use case, so we should build that.
Yeah.
But that's just, again, those are kind of things that you have to sort of
figure out to more users.
Like most of those answers do not come from like data analysis.
Right.
So what you're saying is I should get users.
I get users talk to people.
I'll work on that.
Figure out, figure out who you need to talk to to get people in the conversation.
Let's jump into group four, three.
Group four, that is Alex, Manikanda and Will.
Great.
Great.
Okay.
Yeah.
So I can summarize some of the things we discussed.
The first thing is we don't call it fake.
Kenji, we call it synthetic.
You're almost making it sound bad.
Yeah.
So one of the challenges, if you create fake queries is you want to know that
the query has the matching chunk.
So of course you can go on GPT and give it a chunk and say, okay, come up with a
question so that the answer is contained there, but usually you get things out of
distribution or non matching the real questions.
So one of the challenges we discussed is I guess if you have a seed of real
questions, you can use the seed in the prompting and there's more, there's a
whole sequence of more sophisticated algorithms where you evolve, there's
evolving structs, self-instruct, there's methods where you can improve the
synthetic data set.
I don't know how much that works.
Well, it was unclear to us.
Another thing he said is for real feedback, all our experiences has been
users don't give you feedback much.
And if they give you feedback, it's only when they're really upset or when it's
really so, so even when you get feedback, it's from a corner case of situations.
That's probably not the ones.
So one idea in money's case, I think, and in some cases you just naturally have a
search so people are clicking on something.
And when people are clicking on something, you collect the feedback
from the natural workflow.
So I guess one thing that we got as a message is you have to somehow get
feedback from your natural workflow and not hope that they will click.
And I guess what Jason said with this very clever idea of, Oh, I really want to
see who will view my profile, but now I'm going to only see it.
If I delete some of the people I may know forcing the workflow to make the user
give me feedback is I think a very clever insight there.
And then I guess the other things we discussed is, okay, sometimes search
will benefit by adding metadata, which, which we know, and we didn't know if
fine tuning re-rankers was something that I don't have experience on fine
tuning re-rankers and it sounded like a more advanced thing to do.
But, but I guess it depends on as, as Jason has explained, it
depends on the use case, but yeah, that's kind of what we got from our conversation.
Yeah.
I think fine tuning re-rankers like using coheres re-rankers, it should actually
feel like fairly straightforward, right?
Because a lot of it is just having even a hundred or a thousand good examples is
probably going to be enough to give you that like 5% boost.
I think the nuance really comes into fine tuning and betting models, but I
think that's because that's my background.
I'm probably more a little bit biased towards of thinking a lot about those
situations, because again, it's like, usually when you find tune these
embedding models, it's not just to make the product better, it's to make your
data analysis a lot easier too, right?
Because like the, like the Spotify discoverer weekly is okay, songs are
related if they're in the same playlist, if they're listening to the by the
same people or they're from the same album, they have the same like BPM.
And you have all this, all this information.
And that's how you make like the Spotify recommendations really, really good
versus just having some kind of like user ID song ID of your ranker.
That's usually not enough to get really, really good results.
I'd add a couple of things.
So one is, so Jason gave an example of you need to click an X to see the next person.
So that would be how to get hard negatives.
I think getting positive examples is much easier.
So earlier we talked about maybe, uh, you've got a button that could
not be something to the clipboard.
If you're presenting data that you expect people to put in some other
document, so if you've got a mechanism like that on the front end, that's
actually like, there are many cases where you'd find something that is a proactive
measure of taking some action and that implicit feedback, you can fine tune
just on the positive examples.
And then I, like Jason said, I think using the cohere fine tuning once you
have the data is pretty straightforward.
And to add to that too, like a lot of good data science and machine learning
is done through good practice.
And so part of it, like, like a part of the work is making sure we have the good
feedback, right?
It's almost like if you're building an assembly line, like it, you have to make
a job that says like someone's job is to take products out of the assembly line
and then test them, right?
We can't just sort of wait until there's a massive recall for us to
realize something's going on.
Like for example, with, with Zapier, we used to have a very small thumbs up,
thumbs down button in the top left corner of the screen.
And we just said, we need more feedback.
And which, but we did, we just moved her right above the inner button.
I get any given point, like just the feedback mechanism is just a larger
percentage of the screen and you like, you change the colors, you change the copy.
We'll like send you an email afterwards to ask you if you're satisfied, right?
It's like existing systems, like customer support, for example, like every customer
support conversation, they send you an email like 20 minutes afterwards.
It's like, here's the transcript.
Were you happy with the results?
That's them like begging and like pleading with the user to get that feedback.
And so I think it's really important to also really understand that a lot of the
improvements are external to the system, right?
Like it is kind of goofy to be like, Oh, I think the answer is to get more users.
But I think the real conversation there would be how can we make a simpler
product to get in front of users more quickly?
Like we might want to have this like massive dream to be able to produce
something, but can we actually build something that's like six times simpler?
Just to like understand what kind of questions people are asked.
Can we build other incentives to get more data, get more labels, et cetera, et cetera.
Was that the last group Dan?
I think so.
Right now we got one more group five Sudhir and Vaibhav.
Thanks Sudhir joined late.
I think someone else was originally in that room who's left.
Yeah, I joined late, but I think the question or the topic discussed was
reducing latency retrieval and then agentic welfare.
So I haven't actually had this problem yet because I haven't had a use case for
that yet with such complex work code, but I actually would, especially having
the UI, so you have some coding component, you tell the user what the agentic steps
are being processed with like the fixity does it, such as trans, x, y, z,
what it's actually doing and also it's passionate, we can use data responses.
And then we just retrieve that instead of actually processing it.
Definitely makes sense.
Yeah.
I'll talk more about this in next week's, like the last, last session, which will
mostly just be around like how we think about product.
And a lot of it is just like making sure we have interstitials, having user
interfaces, making sure things are interruptible, even just stopping for a
second to ask for permission, I think is a great way of again, making things feel
good because like it's less about how long something takes and almost more about
like how well does the system communicate to the user, right?
If you think of having an intern or an assistant, a task might take a day, but
if they don't send you a single update, you just become like impatient and
nervous and so it's a lot of like how we can do that, but also setting up
situations where if we're using like multiple tools and parallel tools, we
can also render the tools in a way that is streaming.
So not only do you render a response, we can also stream out status updates about
not only the tool creation and the tool execution, those things are all going to
make that latency feel a lot, a lot better.
I know we're almost at time.
I might have like time for maybe 10 minutes of questions and I get the
first meal of the day and so yeah, if anyone has any questions, feel free to
raise your hand and then we can jump to those.
Sudhir?
Yeah, just following on that question about the UX, is there any preferred
UI or do you just own-draw custom React components for things like displaying
insights into the mind of the user?
Just like the tech leader does.
Yeah.
Everything I've seen has mostly just been like most of what I've seen and built
have been either React apps or through texting, right?
They all have, or like a Slack bot and most of what has been done over
React is just like server-side events or web hooks, but I think server-side
events is a little bit easier to build out in Python.
Almost everyone I know has built like very custom components.
I don't know if there's like a really good like interstitial library that
is in JavaScript or anything like that.
A lot of it is just like streaming JSON out from one, from the back end and then
just making sure we have a good way of rendering that.
What kind of tools are you thinking about using?
Well, I currently have a prototype in Gradio, but at this point, when I try to
add a new feature, like having it almost unusable because you're not getting the
audio gram response as the tokens are being used in Azure and then you have to
actually extend and the error hand zone is not there as well.
At this point, I just need to start building my own components next to
AS, that's probably a URB expression, but there's so many components by those.
Yeah.
Everything I've done is just like using React codes and like use state.
Darren makes a good call out.
The Versal SDK for LLM is pretty good.
So if you're on like the React Versal stack, they have a lot of really good
like partial streaming JSON capabilities, but I'll give like way more like visual,
like the examples I'll give next week are going to be all like very visual.
So you kind of get a sense of like the before and after of improving some of these systems.
Okay.
Cool.
Thanks.
Anyone else have any questions?
Cool.
If that is the case, we can wrap up on time and then, yeah, we'll see you tomorrow.
And then tomorrow, next week will be the last one.
We'll mostly talk about UI design and how to sort of coerce feedback from the user.
It'll be useful for everyone.
Awesome.
Take care everyone.
