I would say that the number one takeaway is to invest in experimentation
infrastructure early, because that will be your sort of compass for figuring
how to escape from prompt out and, uh, deliver results for both
your users and your business.
This talk is titled breaking free from prompt hell.
And we're today, we're going to explore a workflow of how to develop a systematic
approach to improve it, measuring, improving drag applications, and we're
going to go through four different sections.
The first one is what is prompt hell.
It's term we've been using a lot.
Then we're going to talk about evaluation, then experimentation,
and finally optimization.
One of the main things we're going to get out of this is how do we move away from
the reactive firefighting with customer complaints, people coming and saying,
Hey, this doesn't work.
I don't like how it did that.
And how do we get moved towards some proactive optimization?
How do we move away from guesswork and go towards data-driven decisions?
And to start off, we're going to describe what prompt hell is, which is those
loops of trial and error prompts fiddling.
And I went to a engineering school.
I did not finish engineering school, but one of the key things they do say
is engineering is when you're very specific, you're very meticulous and
prompt engineering does have some specificity to it, but more often than
not, it feels like trying to whisper the magic incantations to get the
LM to do what you want it to do.
And there are some real, real costs and pains to prompt hell.
There's engineering time where you spend endless tweaking cycles.
Sometimes you we've worked with people who've been prompt fiddling until 2,
3 a.m. to get out of the hell hole they're in.
There is technical debt in terms of undocumented and untested changes.
There's a lot of learning that does happen in the active loop of prompt
fiddling that isn't necessarily documented.
And other people on the team are not able to benefit from that.
Trying all these different variations does lead to spending more on API costs
and spending more on APIs is good in so far as you know, you're systematically
getting to a better result.
And finally, there's this massive opportunity cost because you're, you
spend your days firefighting problems for your users instead of building value
add functions, but you want to be able to say, Hey, I built this feature.
I delivered it.
I squashed some bugs.
Let's move on to the next one.
And more, and unfortunately in the current paradigm of building AI apps, you end up
spending a lot of time trying to support and fix bugs ad hoc, and you get into this
really frustrating game of whack a mole where you see an issue, you try to fix
that, and then another issue pops up.
Then you try to fix that and you just keep trying to whack those moles.
You spin your wheels and what do you really have to show at the end of it?
And rag makes prompt hell even worse because now there's multiple steps in your pipeline.
You might have some ingestion indexing prompts to transform the
documents as they're coming in.
The retrieval quality is something to consider.
You might have a query rewriting step and then the generation as well.
And making a change somewhere in the system is going to have cascading
effects to other parts of the system.
So that's the problem.
And now how do we get around to solving this?
This is where evaluation comes into play and everybody's heard of evals.
Everybody knows about eval.
I hope you know about evals for hallucination or recall.
These are some very useful things.
And the takeaway for this section is that what gets measured gets managed.
It's that old business school adage.
And this talk is structured in the form of like, how do you go from zero to hero?
Right?
So we're going to start off from the very basic of, okay, you're building some AI
feature and so what are you going to do?
You're going to write your best guess at a prompt.
And then you're going to start running it with some example inputs.
And one key thing to be aware of here is you want to make sure that your example
inputs are representative of real use.
They are challenging and they're edge cases, and there are also edge cases involved.
This is sort of what you would do if you were building a regular code base with
some functions that are very important.
You're going to test the main functionality.
You're going to test some challenging functionality.
You're going to test some edge cases.
Think about the last time you implemented.
I don't know, test for a recursive function.
And what if you put an empty list in, how does it behave?
You put a massive list in, how does it behave?
You want to make sure that your eval set is representative of real use, that it
has these edge cases captured and also has some challenging ones as well.
As you're going through this, you want to save inputs and outputs to create your
eval set because no one ever regrets creating a representative test set of 10
examples or more, ideally more, the more, the better.
But at the minimum, it really speeds up your iteration process.
If you can capture some of these inputs and outputs into a data set, so that as
you make prompt tweaks, you can run that eval set again, and this is foundational
because it sets up the foundation for the iterative learning process that occurs
when you're developing these AI apps.
You might go and show your AI app to another key stakeholder and they tell you
of another input that you didn't fathom.
You should add that to your eval set.
You're going to get feedback from others.
You should add that to your eval set.
This is super important because I can't think of anybody who has figured out all
the requirements for their prompt upfront before writing examples, the
requirements and the edge cases and all of that, they come iteratively as you're
experimenting with different prompts and trying out different inputs.
And this is what, this is how often people get to the looks good to me at 10.
It's okay.
We've run this with 10, 20, 50 examples.
Looks good to me.
Let's ship it.
Some of you might be wondering, should we use synthetic data for zero to one?
I would say if you don't know how users would use your system, you have a bigger
problem, you should understand your users and understand what sort of things they're
going to be asking of your system so that you can have something that's representative.
It can feel like it's kind of a roundabout way to create 10 examples.
If you go and you create a pipeline for creating synthetic data for those, you're
building a chat with your documents, get some documents, read through the documents
yourself, wonder about 10 different questions, consider the types of questions.
Is it about a precise section in the document?
Is it about multiple sections in the document?
Maybe you have multiple documents.
Maybe there needs to be some aggregation.
Consider all of these different scenarios and user stories to inform how
you construct your eval set.
Now that you have your eval set, you also need to have
meaningful and reliable evals.
These are two adjectives that I want to define.
One is meaningful and a really good sort of compass for this is
what moves the bottom line.
So in our conversations with Jason, he mentioned like recall is a very
important meaningful metric.
Are you retrieving the correct documents or getting all the relevant
documents to answer the user's query?
That is a very meaningful.
If somebody comes to you and says, look, I want this to sound vibier, sound better.
I would question that and say, okay, why do you want this to sound vibing?
And then they might come and say, well, I think it's going to create a
better product experience.
And then you might question them again and say, why is that valuable?
And then they might say, oh, it's going to like lead to more usage of this feature.
And you're going to say, aha.
So usage is a KPI that matters to me.
And now I need to be able to think about how to craft an eval that links to KPI.
And vibes was just some intermediary for that.
The second property of good evals is that they are reliable and they consistently
evaluate in the same way.
A lot of the work that we've done in the past has been around helping people
create reliable LLM judges based on a scoring rubric.
So you've got the ones you might have had in school where there's multiple
dimensions, each dimension has different scores.
And what we've found is that the more you can decompose this rubric or whatever it
is into individual LLM as judge binary classifiers with very specific, unambiguous
like task descriptions that are simple enough that even LLM 8B could do it, the
better you're going to be because those are going to, it's much easier for those to
have like a 90% plus quality accuracy or precision or recall or F1 than it is to do
something a bit more ambiguous.
One other thing to zoom in on this a bit more is this idea of filtering with F1,
but then selecting with Kappa.
And this is important because what we notice is that more, more, most often
people are looking at F1 scores to figure out, okay, is this like a good judge?
And that is important.
That is important.
That's why we want to filter with F1, but we also want to select with Kappa.
And what is Kappa?
So we created a little, little playground for this on Claude and there's two of
these because Claude couldn't fix it.
And let's say, let's say you have a agreement of 80% between your LLM
judge and your human judge.
All right.
And so the, if the LLM says it's good, the human says it's good.
Both of them said like 60 of them were good.
And then we, we have the slider here, which is like how many of the
hundred examples did the LLM say was bad and adjust the numbers on the rest.
As we adjust these, we can see the precision recall and F1 scores for
the good class and the bad class.
It really depends on what you're doing.
If you are a bank and you want to catch fraud and you want to label those
fraud things as bad, then a recall of a hundred percent is going to be
more important for you.
If you're maybe a B2C app and you want to be more sure that when something bad
comes up, that you're very precise about it, then you want to focus on
precision on that front.
And the other thing to notice here is this Kappa.
So what is Kappa?
What is this thing you've mentioned?
Kappa is the measure of agreement beyond chance.
Your LLM as judge might have just memorized the distribution, but is it
actually understanding how to agree and how to judge like you're judging on something?
So if you adjust this, for example, you'll see that the Kappa is now 0.375.
And the, the observed agreement was 80.
The expected agreement based on just pure probability was 68.
And the agreement beyond chance.
This is what Kappa is measuring is this yellow bar over here.
There's this interpretation.
This is the formula for Cohen's Kappa.
There's also an interpretation of it.
One thing we have also discovered is that the max these Kappa scores, even
though it's from negative one to one, they actually need to be normalized.
There is a max Kappa score depending on what your total agreement is.
And we have to do the math on that to get back to you, but a more real world
example of that is this is a, is there, is there too much jargon LLM judge that
we helped calibrate for a customer of ours?
And we try, we threw a bunch of techniques at it.
We tried few shots, the static few shots.
We tried dynamic few shots.
We tried fine tuning with static few shots inside.
We tried fine tuning with dynamic few shots, fine tuning with zero shots, all
of the above, and we, here we have the F1 scores and just looking at the F1
scores, you might say, okay, there's, there's this like 80%, 80%, 80%, 80%.
Okay.
Let's look at these four 80%.
Let's come, let's pick from one of these to be our LLM judge.
Then we want to look at the Kappa to select which one ought to be our LLM judge.
And over here, we see that the highest Kappa is for those is this 65,5 and this 69,69.
It's a relatively simple decision here.
This row has both the highest F1 and the highest Kappa.
And it was trained with 40, it was a fine tuned GPT-40 mini trained with 40 examples.
But if this row wasn't there and we hit it, now we have to decide between this
row of a Kappa of 0.645 and of an F1 of 8.84, or this row of a Kappa of an F1
of 0.82 and a Kappa of 0.65.
In some situations you might say that actually, yeah, the F1 is a little lower,
but I want there to be more agreement between my LLM judge and my human, my human labels.
So this was a little side quest into Kappa.
And you want to regularly revisit these alignment scores with human labeled
eval data to ensure that there is alignment.
Now you've got some, now you've got your eval set.
You have some evals.
You've measured a baseline by this point.
What do you do next?
Now we get to experimentation.
Amazing.
And you saw here, we tried a bunch of experiments, right?
We tried zero shot.
We called it with zero shots.
We called it with few shots.
We called it with dynamic few shots.
We fine tuned in all these sorts of ways.
Fact is there is no silver bullet folks.
You just have to try a bunch of things and see what works best.
That's, that's really it.
And the way you can really make the most of experimentation is you
want to get some real world data.
So whether that means launching or doing some private beta testing, get some real
world data in your system, experiment and evaluate on that, let users give you
feedback and once they identify some failure cases, add them to your eval set.
This way, you know that you're solving those failures.
Whereas you iterate on the prompts and the models underneath.
You wanted to have tracking and reproducibility, right?
You want to version control your prompts.
You want to know that this prompts and, or this chain of prompts, and these
this chain of models got me this score.
And these were the evals that did it.
You want to have the logs there.
Sometimes it looks like you're like, Oh, I'm trying to optimize this thing.
And this is, this has happened to us before.
Our customer is like, I'm trying to optimize this thing and I just can't
get it to get better than 89%.
And then we're like, have you tried looking at your data?
And then they go into the data and they realized that actually they had a data
issue and the real number was like 96%.
So you should be able to, you should go look at your data.
And this is just best practices for looking at your data and being able to see
the chain, the cons, the consequence chain of your decisions.
Another useful thing when you're doing evaluation is to not forget statistics.
Sometimes slight variations in performance are a result of noise.
Even with a temperature of zero, these models are non-deterministic.
So you want to run multiple trials and significance tests.
If you really want to be confident in the assertions you're making, it's,
it is a bit harder to do at smaller data set sizes.
So you might skip them, but once you have enough data, it's
helpful to bring these in.
One of the little help, helpful tools we built for this is the
Neymar sample size calculator, which tells you what the sample size of,
what the size of your test set needs to be able to derive statistical significance.
Let's say you have two, let's say you have two binary classifiers
and you want to compare them.
You want to make sure that one is significantly better than the other.
You want to be 80% sure that one is better than the other.
That's this one over here.
You expect the new classifier to get 8% of the cases, correct.
8% of the cases correct that the old classifier didn't.
And over for the P01, you're okay with the new classifier getting 2% of the
cases that the old classifier got right, getting those wrong.
And this will show you that you need to have 219 items in your test set to come
up with a statistically significant conclusion.
When you're running a lot of experiments, how do you, how should you think about that?
You probably should only modify one component of the system at a time.
So in your rag, you might have multiple steps.
You might have some ingestion steps and query, you know, some retrievals,
some query rewriting, all these different things, keep everything frozen, play with
one, see how it affects things downstream.
And often you will be able to, but by looking at the kind of failure you see at the end,
you can infer what step of the chain caused that error.
It can be helpful to use a gateway or proxy like port key or light LLM with
semantic caching for those static parts.
Don't want semantic caching for the part you're playing with, but for the other
parts, this way you can, you know, benefit, you don't have to wait as long for the
LLM to generate its outputs in order to have to pay for it.
And you can also progressively scale from small sets to larger sets.
So you found some errors.
Great.
Just run that error set and see if you can fix it.
And then once you can fix it, you can go to the other examples you had, see how
your changes affected those and whether there were regressions, grouping related
variances, kind of like the same thing as two.
And now that you've done that, now you have some evals, you know, you, you have
your eval set, you have your evals, you have a baseline, you have tried a bunch
of experiments.
How do you think about the optimization for those experiments?
How do you think about those things?
And there are many techniques.
There is no silver bullet.
You just, this is what I said at the beginning, you just have to try a bunch of
different things, but you have to try them in a systematic way that is reproducible.
One of my favorite techniques here is the validate regenerate method that Jason
mentioned at some point, I'm sure where you can use pedantic to validate the
output and regenerate it.
Healing is always going to be better than evaling at the end.
Go look at learnprompting.com to see what techniques they offer.
Isolate that component in your system, try different techniques, see what makes sense.
If you're wondering, okay, do I do static few shot or dynamic few shot?
I'd say try both.
And sometimes even a combination of both is helpful.
So one of the things we found is that, so we were working on a file on a new
optimizer for DSPy that did dynamic few shot and static few shots.
So what it would do is if you said, I want like five examples in prompt, it
would try having zero static, it would try having one static, two static, three static.
And then the remainder being dynamic.
And on the, on the rag test sets of hotpot QA and hover retrieve, we found that
the optimizer, I mean, the optimizer found that having some static examples was
actually helpful for improving the scores versus having them all be dynamic or
having them all be static.
Fine tuning is really helpful when you have small like fine tuning with open AI
specifically is really helpful with small amounts of data, you can get some results
with even 10 examples for the fine tuning.
You want those examples to be representative of real world usage.
And when you are fine tuning with open AI, this is hidden in their docs.
You want to inject the static or dynamic few shot examples into the fine tuning
JSONL that's going to help.
You might say, do I do static or dynamic?
I say try both experiment with both, see what works better for use case.
For rag specifically, you might want to look at a contextual rag.
When you're taking in the documents, you want to do some pre-processing on them
with LLMs to augment them.
That is very helpful.
One of the techniques that I was doing pre contextual rag was I take a document
segmented into sections, take each section, have an LLM turn that section into
facts that were atomic facts.
And then another LLM would take those facts and turn them into questions that
are answered by the facts, and then you'd embed the questions.
And then at query time, you'd have the LLM ask questions, do an embedding search on
the questions, retrieve the relevant facts, put them into the prompt.
That can be helpful for optimizing your rag pipeline.
And for the retrieval set, for example, you might want to optimize for precision
and recall simultaneously.
So you might consider on assembling two different LLMs, one that is really good
for rewriting the query to maximize precision.
The other that's really good for rewriting the query to maximize recall, and then
combining the results set from both of those.
And I brought this slide again, because these optimizations don't happen in a
vacuum, you want to get real world data.
You want to let users give you feedback.
You want to continually add stuff to your eval sets and measure your iterations
against the eval sets that you have.
And this is what, what we've just gone through is I'd say a workflow for moving
from this like reactive firefighting regime of I YOLO shipped something and now
users are complaining and now I need to play prompt whack-a-mole to feeling a
little Zen in how you're building all these apps and it lets you wait one sec.
And this lets you move from guesswork to data-driven decisions.
Somebody may have booked this room.
So we'll see.
So what are the takeaways from this talk?
Get your data first, then get your evaluation second, do experimentation to optimize
and create feedback loops in your system so that you can incorporate learning.
Awesome.
That's great.
You can incorporate learnings from real usage into your eval harness so
that you can iterate against those.
Thank you for coming to my Ted talk.
Now's the time for Q and A.
Is your room okay?
The room is okay.
I got this for the next 30 minutes.
Okay.
Perfect.
So as always, we're going to, we're probably going to do like three or four
questions from the Slido and then we'll just jump on to live questions.
Let me just change my windows.
Can you provide more clarification on how to break from the prompt help loop?
Can you give some real world examples or case studies you had with customers?
Oh, okay.
How do you break from the prompt help, prompt help loop?
My followup with my first question would be you have, I imagine you have
something it's out there now users are complaining.
One thing that you can do here, that is the case is you want to be able to
take in the user feedback, you can do some clustering or segmentation of that.
That will identify different eval sets for different problem cases.
And then you can go and tune your system, experiment your system in your system
to squash the errors in those different segments, eval sets.
That is something that from what I've heard, Replet used for their Replet agent.
So I guess another question.
I mean, this is almost very similar, but different in some way.
Is it possible to develop a generalized evaluation framework that can serve as
a foundation across multiple industries?
I don't know if you can have a set, a generalized set of evals, but I believe
you could have a generalized eval generator.
Can you elaborate?
One of, one of the things we're exploring at ZenBase is how do you generate
rely, reliable evals, you know, ones that are human aligned and that, you know,
how do you have a pipeline for doing that?
And so that could be general across industries, but I, other than
hallucination and recall, I don't really know what would be a set of general
evals that will work in every industry.
Everything we find often evals are very domain specific.
So that's why I would hesitate to say there's one set of evals that covers everything.
Oh, Jason, you're muted.
Oh, sorry about that.
How can you build evaluations to be tailored to measure performance
for subjective user specific tasks?
I can imagine situations where different users are judging the same labels.
Yeah, that's a, that's a fun one.
There's always, there's going to be some disagreement between your
labelers or your judges already.
And so if you're trying to calibrate an LLM to judge like them, it's going to
judge like the intersection of their agreement and not the, that's a fun one.
How would you do that?
I think so.
One of the things we've done is we have one labeler, we have one expert labeler,
and then we get an LLM to count, to judge like them.
We have also worked in situations that where there are multiple
labelers when we did do that.
We, it worked as well.
It worked the same in terms of Kappa scores.
Actually, it was roughly the same.
I'd have to see more about the problem to offer more targeted feedback on that.
Yeah, I can add to this as well.
I think it really depends on whether or not the intra labeler variance is noise
or that they're actually judging for different things.
And you can basically figure this out by looking at the alignment across judges.
So if you find examples where multiple judges label different things,
ideally two things happen.
One, you try your best to make labels binary.
And so agreement and disagreement is very clear.
And then when you find disagreements, you had to recognize that if they are
disagreeing, but one of them is incorrect and there is a right answer, you need
to change your labeling policy.
If they are disagreeing, but both of them are right because there's some other
category, then there should be a separate labeling task.
Right.
And so this happens a lot in the Zapier example, where in the beginning, like
all the labels are just like, how did we do good or bad?
And some people would say it's bad because the answer is too long.
Whereas some people would say it's bad because the formatting is not correct.
And you just have to make two separate labels.
You have to go talk to your labelers, look at your data, go, no, no,
it's not good or bad.
It's did it follow the formatting or did it?
Was the answer too long.
Right.
And so you got to figure out like what that case is.
Um,
I want to riff on that further, further.
One of the points I made eval section is to decompose your evals.
And so if at the beginning you have your labelers saying this was good, this was
bad, that the bad grades, what was good, what was bad, what are the properties of
all the good ones of all the bad ones?
The, the good and the bad is trying to coalesce so many different small things.
And even though that is a binary classifier, it's not a specific,
unambiguous binary classifier.
So from all those good bad labels, you may end up with a set of 12 hyper
specific binary classifiers is the formatting good or not?
Was there too much repetition?
The, these things are all those.
And what is repetition?
Even that's not even, that's not even a hyper specific one.
So you need to be very specific with your LLM judges and also your human
labelers, and sometimes that starts with just yes, no labels.
Sometimes you create a rubric.
There's it's quite an iterative process to come down with very specific,
unambiguous natural language checks.
I definitely agree.
Let's do, let me see how many, uh, photo questions.
Okay.
Maybe we'll do like three or four that go live.
To what extent do you see models improving your prompts versus
just tweaking them by hand?
I think here it's mostly going to be around whether we have evals to Hill
climb, but I'd love to hear your answer.
I think that improvement is relative.
I think that the models will generally get better.
I think that what often happens is that prompts are under specified from expectations.
And so I think of prompting as the communication of your expectations
and your intentions for an LLM.
And if you have under specify your expectations and intentions, then the
model getting better won't necessarily do anything for you.
That's a pretty strong, strong answer.
I would also say here, it really depends on whether or not you have
good evals to begin with, right?
I think if 100% is the highest and you have something at 60%, there are going
to be techniques in the future that help you get to that specification.
But I think what's happening in real life is just because people only have
six or seven examples and currently six of them are perfect, too many teams
want to have very high scores.
But what that means is you can't actually go climb because you're kind of at the top.
And so a lot of the work there too, is also about expanding your eval set to
actually be harder, where if you actually have them, it's like 50% accurate.
Now you can Hill climb a little bit more, but 50% accurate with a hundred examples
is very different than 50% accurate because you have two out of four failing.
A lot of that is going to be pretty important.
I'd also say the second, the second call out there is whether or not you have
a good library of few shot examples.
If you have a library of like 400 few shot examples, there's probably something
you can do to figure out what is the best 20 to choose.
But again, most of it is the work that you do to help the model rather than
the model actually doing the work for you.
The model is going to solve the problem of search, but you have to give it
the space of what to search.
Oh, this question is good.
So what open source projects do you wish existed that don't exist?
And where do you see opportunities for the community to contribute?
Open source projects exist on it.
And where does, Ooh, I think that it is very early days on this, like
automated prompt engineering train.
It may seem very opaque.
It may seem like it seems very complicated, but actually when you get down to it,
you'll find some simplicity there.
And we're at the place where it is a deep ocean that has only been
shallowly explored and shallow exploration will lead to, will actually
be industry leading research.
Optimization algorithms is one place that if I summarize the SPS existing
optimizers, it's like try random few shot examples to find which are the best.
That's one of them.
The other is like, look at the source code and some examples and the existing
prompts to suggest better prompts with some heuristic ideas.
It's the other one.
And then the latest one is like, you're doing classification and here are like
the examples that were in class A and here in class B in for some rules that
will help you decide how to classify this.
Those are very like really simple prompt optimization algorithms.
When you frame them that way, it's just been wrapped in all of this complexity.
And so if you can sort of breach that complexity, there is a opportunity
to do cool things there.
I think that the ELL library is really cool.
L is a really cool approach to things.
And I'd like to see more things like that, but async first, especially
on the TypeScript side, if you're asking about like what openings are there.
I know that TypeScript is underserved relatively, Master AI is doing some
really cool work on that right now.
And there are some engineering teams that are just getting into AI and
they are like go users.
What is, when's the last time you heard about like a new agent library for go?
So, I don't know, taking Lang chain and having thought code Lang chain core and
having thought code writer for go maybe taking L and writing it for like, I
think that if there are these niches that are open, if you just build something,
you know, intuitive for that language.
Python is very saturated.
There's a lot of tools.
It's probably 12 different eval tools and 42 different observability platforms.
But on the like go side, there's something, there's a bunch of go engineers from
Netflix writing back in code that are just like lying a little inside, having to
write Python microservices for the AI things.
So that's one side.
That could be one thing.
Hmm.
I think there's, and lastly, I'll save this.
I think, um, a lot of tools are based on different batch processes and something
like a iterative prompt development system, encapsulating a lot of what I
talked about today or different tools, different parts of it could be
particularly helpful because, and this isn't just me saying this, but I'm
referencing Shreya, Shreya Shankar is like who validates the validators and
other papers of that elixir.
You don't know what you expect until you iterate.
And then as you iterate, you figure out what you need and nobody really knows
what prompts you need at the beginning and the end.
Yeah.
I'll also add, I do think there's a lot of tools around just like data analysis
of conversations that are really lacking.
I think we talk about clustering a lot and how cool clustering to look at data.
But mostly these things sort of exists in notebooks.
They don't really have general tools.
I don't know if like any can exist right now, but that style of analysis has been
happening for like a decade now.
So I think I wish I saw more tools on that.
One last question before we jump into live questions, just because I think I
called you out on this before as well.
What does meaningful and reliable mean to you?
So you say meaningful and reliable evals.
Yes.
Okay.
Meaningful means that it has, if you're trying to go from point A to point B,
a meaningful sort of compass is one that gets you from point A to point B, but
it's not meaningful if it's orthogonal to you getting to point B.
So the evals that you have are supposed to help you get to point B.
And sometimes those evals can be your best guess at what gets you to point B.
The prompt I offered is question the eval you are given.
If somebody gives you an eval says, I want this eval other than hallucination
and recall, those are pretty like standard.
If it is, if there's more of a vibe, the eval question it, ask why this vibe
eval matters and often you will, and maybe you will get to some metric for the
core business and then that is actually your true eval is my LLM doing things
to drive the business forward.
And that is the true eval.
Now you have to figure out how to break that down.
Reliable I believe is the combination of an F1 score and a Kappa score.
So the F1 tells you how you're doing on precision and recall.
The Kappa score shows how aligned it is with your human graders and
not what the LLM thinks itself.
And sometimes we've done this, we get the LLM to output in its grade and the human
graders are like, wait, actually, I think that's right.
Like my grade's wrong.
So you kind of have to find the balance between what the LLM says and what the
human graders say and the agreement between that, all of those, and when that
agreement is high, then it's reliable.
But oftentimes just a bare prompt into an LLM will get the LLM to judge like it
judges, and that is not necessarily the vector or the angle you want to approach
things with.
You want to have the judge or the automated judge judge the thing in the way
you want it to be judged rather than the way it judges.
Now you're muted.
That summarizes a little bit.
So are you saying that like meaningful is more about like, how does it correlate
with sort of these outcomes?
Whereas reliable is more like, how does it correlate with your own decisions or
your own labelers?
Got it.
All right.
Let's try to open up any questions from the main group here.
I think we can do some hand raising.
Otherwise, I think one question I've been asking everyone is like, what is
the question we have not asked that you wish we asked?
Can I ask a question about DSPY?
Yeah.
If that's okay.
So do you use DSPY as part of your work?
So you showed, for example, in a real consulting example, I know you're a
contributor to it, but when I've looked at it personally, it's hard for me to
get my head into it and I just wanted your opinion as someone that's worked on
the project, tell me how to on-ramp A and or B should I bother or should I look at
using ZenBase?
Cause I actually, if you could say a few words about your company, I was looking
online, I feel like you're maybe a rapper for it.
So maybe just talk about what you're doing there.
Cause I finally found a DSPY expert.
I need to ask the question.
Sounds, sounds good.
I'd say let's look at, to answer this question, I want to look at the problems.
I believe DSPY is trying to solve.
DSPY as it exists today is how do I, as a researcher iterate on system
architectures to find one that works to accomplish the task I want to accomplish
and create a state of the art system so that I can publish a paper implicit in
all that job to be done is this is a tool for researchers.
The ideal place to be working with DSPY is a Jupiter notebook.
If you look at some of the defaults in DSPY, it has a bounded cache for LM
which you don't want to have in production.
You can configure it to not have an unbounded cache, but a lot of the
design decisions around that.
Another of the design decisions for DSPY is you shouldn't be writing prompts.
You should write these maps, these transforms where in reality, what we
find is people already have prompts and DSPYs optimizers in our experience
haven't been the best at taking a prompt and making it better, but they are good
for taking no prompt and making it into a good prompt.
So the way we have used DSPY in our consulting is to use it as a prototyping
framework to explore the appropriate architecture to get good results.
Because that's, it's actually really good for that.
I have a multi-label classifier and this isn't doing that well.
What if I broke it down with the seven binary classifiers?
Oh, I see.
Okay.
Okay.
And then let me run that.
And then I see that it resulted in a 15% lift.
Okay.
Maybe I should be approaching the problem that way and then write
specific prompts for each of those.
Yeah.
Yeah, that makes, that makes a lot of sense.
Sure.
Yeah.
So that, that's how we've been using it.
To be perfectly honest, the code example that we have on our website is a sort of
vision of what an easier to use DSPY might look like.
That may not, I think what, as we've explored the idea maze, that that's
not actually what we've built.
As we explore the idea maze, what we're finding is that one of the key leverage
points is having meaningful and reliable evals, because if your evals aren't
calibrated, then what, what are you optimizing against?
So we've zoomed into onto that problem.
One solution we found is this decomposition into very specific,
unambiguous binary classifier.
And now we're exploring how do you generate those evals iteratively based on.
Okay.
So with the, and this will be the last, last question I asked, cause I
want to obviously, would the rauggest sort of folks be a competitor zen base?
Like just conceptually, just trying to get my hand around what you're trying to do.
I think this is very fresh based on our conversations yesterday.
We're trying to sell to the C suite and not to the engineers themselves.
Gotcha.
So selling to the engineers.
We're selling to the C.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
And thank you very much for, for presenting today.
Thank you.
Appreciate your questions.
Hey, Sarah, thanks for the presentation.
Question was, are you finding prompt hell to be a same problem across non-English
languages, are you finding a lot of companies dealing with that or is that
very early days and if so, are you finding the same kind of techniques that would
apply to non-English as well?
That is a really good question.
And I have not had the pleasure of talking to a company that has, I'd say like
an esoteric language that they're working with.
We've worked with English and French.
So far probably roughly the same.
You still get this like prompt whack-a-mole thing, but other than that, I
don't have enough data to give you a confident answer.
Are you experiencing prompt hell in another language?
I have a multi-language search app and there's people searching stuff in all
different languages and I have it posted on things like Hindi AI.com and a bunch
of other domains.
So I was just curious, cause you did mention this is early days and I'm just
trying to ideate a negative one to zero solution perhaps.
Ah, one idea is always have separate models slash prompts for different
languages that that can, that could work.
I mean, if you're prompt, I would imagine that if you prompt the model in the
language that it's supposed to respond in, it'll get it better, at least for
pre-reasoning models might be different post-reasoning models, but I have not had
the pleasure to, or maybe not pleasure, but the experience in that specific domain
to guide you with something that I'm confident.
Can I follow up here?
I'm curious, like what is the, like, what is the main couple of like pains that
you're, you're facing with these multi-language music cases?
It's not, I mean, it's not quite a pain.
I think I'm just trying to, I'm trying to see if there's a market for people
using AI tools and non-English languages.
And that's what these MVPs are.
They're just essentially just LLM wrappers right now.
And then I'm trying to see if I can find customers for, I guess, an AI
consulting thing where a non-English documents or reg around non-English
documents might be a thing.
Again, it's like very, very early exploratory work.
Work.
It's not like there's not a lot of users kind of facing this right now.
I can make maybe make two and a half comments.
I think the first comment would be sort of, if you look at the models from Coheer,
they are the ones that probably care the most about multilingual.
And so I think some of their, like the IA model, for example, is like
multilingual, like strongly multilingual, about like 20 something languages.
They have multilingual embeddings.
And so search does quite well.
And so if you kind of know the languages upfront and whether or not they are
covered by the big models, that's one aspect.
So in terms of like finding a niche, I think it would be mostly identifying
languages that are not well described in the training data of other businesses.
Like, for example, like there was a whole Japanese language, GPT-4 team.
And when GPT-4 came out, GPT-4 beat the Japanese only GPT-4.
So even within your own business, it's like, if there's a lot of data,
there's a lot of Japanese, like the main models are going to beat a
specialized model too, is what they've discovered.
And so competition is going to be very hard.
Whereas if you focus on very rare languages, that might be more of an angle.
Like Facebook built a Burmese specific language model.
And that is because the Unicode for Burmese is like very strange and it
doesn't fit well in like the, like many English languages, right?
There was like some token inefficiencies where 10 words in English is, I think,
four tokens, but 10 words in Burmese is 50 tokens.
I'm just making that number up.
But so there's some value there in a tokenization.
I think the second issue might be around dealing with problems that have a lot of
translation, but usually they just come to their own languages.
So when I built out a bunch of different meeting taking apps, you know, what will
happen is you'll go viral in Denmark and all of a sudden, like the Danish
translations, half the time, the summary is in English, half the time, the
summary is in like Dutch, how do you figure this out?
Those end up just being prompting issues.
And when it becomes big enough, people, you are motivated to just solve that
problem individually, right?
If 20% of our traffic is Danish, we can just translate the, we can just hire
like a translator for 800 bucks and just have them write a good prompt.
That's generally the case that we've seen.
It's if you're actually making money, it's just worth having in multiple languages.
Speak.com, for example, they have custom education prompts in every
language that they teach.
That's kind of like something they do.
Speak.com does like a language learning app.
Is it language learning app that uses LLMs?
Yeah, I was familiar with Speak.
Okay.
That's good to know.
Thank you for that insight.
Yeah.
I would really see if there's like a rare language to tackle, but then if it's a
rare language, it's probably not as successful.
It's not a very big tam.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Were there any other questions that people had?
Only about five minutes left.
We can possibly wrap it up early.
Sweet.
Cyrus, thank you.
I think I would love to sort of see, I mean, we can just catch up offline as well,
but just some of the, some of the more work on just experimenting with few shots.
I just shared a blog post where most of the optimization I've seen is either
determining what are the optimal few shots to put into the prompt at once, or
what is the optimal set of few shots that we can dynamically retrieve at any given time.
That's generally how I've been thinking about doing optimization.
And in the near future, some of the things I'm going to be exploring are
basically data mining examples to find the few shots.
And so for example, I've been working with a bunch of VC firms that are
trying to do like due diligence.
And we might come up with a rubric today that the VC people really care about.
And to find the rubric and then mine examples out of the accepted and rejected
candidates, and then we can have the VCs label them as good or bad examples.
And so it's like one, one thing that we're looking at right now is just, they
want to evaluate how well the founders know each other.
Okay.
Given this rubric of how well do the founders know each other, extract all
the snippets out of all the accepted and rejected applications, label those as
like, does it like good or bad on the rubric?
And now they become the few shots of that rubric.
I see.
We should dynamically choose which of the examples to then apply to the prompt
to create features such that another model can predict like the probability
that we would invest in them score.
Makes sense.
Let's talk about that later.
Yeah.
So there's a bunch of fun stuff there, but it's been very interesting.
We have, we ended up just having these LLMs produce binary scores.
Then we train like a XGBoost model to predict a probability of interview.
It's cut down time.
Did you just put that paper where Llama is a better linear regressor than Scikit-Learn?
That's a little depressing.
We should take a look at that.
That's a, that's a fun one.
Anyway, thanks for having me.
I'm here for accuracy, but maybe not for latency.
I will see.
True.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks for having me Jason.
Thanks everybody.
Take care.
Peace and love.
Take care.
