I'm really stoked for this.
So as part of the improving rag sort of series that I've been posting, I've been really excited
to be able to bring together a bunch of folks building the code generation space.
I think it's probably one of the most economically viable forms of agentic rag.
And basically my belief is that the things we learn from you are the things we'll be
able to apply in the future to general document search, internal tooling, like everything
else that rag related.
I think coding systems are probably will give us a glimpse of what that looks like.
And this is really interesting because a lot of the systems I've been seeing get built
these days do fall victim to the chat style of rag.
Usually it makes a search.
We do embeddings, we shove things in the context and we hope it works.
But as workflows get really complicated, we have to do things like reading and planning
and searching and subsequent tool calls.
And so for all of us listening here, I'm really excited to bring in Deang Liu, the CTO of
SourceGraph and the creator of this new coding agent, AMP.
It's a tool that I've been using a lot in a couple of weeks.
And the idea that they're really going to explore is the fact that we've replaced things
like writer databases with grep.
We've replaced many sort of search indices with just having better feedback loops and
context sources.
And I'm really excited for you to share more about the principle that you've had, how you
think about the portfolio of tools and sub-agents to build out this larger LLM system.
With that, Deang, the floor is yours.
Thanks, Jason, for the introduction for having me.
Hello, everyone.
My name is Deang, CTO, co-founder of a company called SourceGraph.
As Jason mentioned, we're building a coding agent from the ground up and the agent is
called AMP.
And as part of doing that, we basically started at first to question a lot of the principles
and best practices that we had learned from building our previous coding assistant, Codi,
which is one of the first sort of like rag-oriented AI coding systems on the market.
And at some point, we took a step back and said, like, actually, there's so many things
that have changed that maybe it's warranted to actually rethink everything from first
principles.
So that's what this talk is kind of about.
Okay.
So why rethink things from first principles?
I think at a high level, it's for this reason.
If you look at the evolution of AI and specifically what we now call gen AI, I would argue that
it's actually been through at least three distinct phases or eras.
The first era was the autocomplete era, where the predominant model at the time was GPT-3
and predominant application architecture was autocomplete, because that's what the underlying
model was capable of.
And so that's what you did as an application builder.
Next came the sort of like rag chat era.
This was ushered in by the release of chat GPT and GPT-3.5 and then GPT-4.
This era moved beyond basic test completion to the point where you could actually instruct
models to do certain things like generate a piece of code following instructions or
asking a question about a code base.
And the key inside this era was like, hey, the elements get a lot better about reasoning
about facts if you actually hand them factual things.
So they are completely reliant on what they've memorized from training data.
And that sort of era culminated in what I like to call the emergence of the VS code
forks or the AI IDEs.
This was thick clients that were built to deploy chat LLMs in various situations that
really worked around a lot of the limitations of chat LLMs of that era.
And the era that we're entering in now or have entered in with, I would say like 3.7
sod it now, quad four, is the era of agents.
And so essentially like a new training technique has yielded a new type of model and that in
turn motivates a new application user experience and architecture.
And so what is that architecture?
In short, the architecture has changed once again.
So in moving from the rag chat era to the agentic era, the main thing in this diagram
is the inversion of the context fetching step.
So in the rag bot era, all AI applications kind of followed the basic the same basic
pattern.
You had a user message.
And then before forwarding that user message to the LLM, you first have your kind of like
monolithic context extension go and fetch relevant snippets and pieces of information
from different sources and then take those snippets and place those within the context
window of the LLM and have it generate a response.
With agents, the control is now inverted.
So instead of having the rag engine decide what is the relevant context and then handing
that to the LLM, you now have the model decide based on the user request, what tools do I
want to evoke in order to fetch the appropriate context?
And it seems like maybe like a minor change, like in the picture, just moving the green
box down to the bottom.
But it actually has some pretty big implications for what the user experience is and what the
architecture is in our view.
OK, so what is that?
What are the implications of this change?
So the coding agent that we're building is AMP.
And I like to show off AMP as basically just like these are screenshots of what AMP is.
These are the two clients that are what users of AMP use.
So there's a simple VS code extension.
It's very bare bones.
The main input is just that text box.
And then you have a CLI, which is also very bare bones as well.
And the thing I want to call out here is just how simple these interfaces are.
In contrast to a lot of the kind of like context tagging UIs that were built for those like
chat LLM era.
And in building AMP, I think we made what are some controversial design decisions if
you're coming from the world of chat LLMs, but even if you're building agents.
So you already saw the UI.
It's very minimal.
We're really focusing on the design of the agentic feedback loops rather than complex
graphical user face for selecting context.
When we designed AMP's interaction, we biased more towards just having it do things.
So when it edits files for you, it normally just doesn't ask before editing a file.
It does ask before executing some bash commands because those can be destructive.
But as much as we can, we try to make it so that the human doesn't have to micromanage
what the agent is doing, which is a big departure from the chat LLM paradigm of like,
you know, every kind of turn of the LLM that the human is sort of like guiding and nudging
and modifying the output.
Third, there's no model selector.
So, you know, in contrast to a lot of the other agents you see out there and a lot of
the tools from the previous era, we didn't build in a kind of like model selector into
the agent. And I'll talk a little bit more about why that is later.
And then we also believe in more of like a UNIX philosophy rather than a thick client
that's like vertically integrated. It's easier to compose and combine with different things.
And then the last thing, which is not a technical thing, but just an economic thing,
I think more and more people are starting to realize that in the era of agents, because
token consumption is so high, if you have flat pricing, it introduces quite perverse
incentives on the behalf of the product builder.
So, you know, if I'm charging you a flat price, but the cost that I'm incurring on the
back end is variable, then I have a strong incentive as the product builder to kind of
like nerf or dumb down the intelligence and models I'm using to to make the cost fit
underneath that. And so we're kind of throwing that out because we want to build a tool
that sort of like maximizes intelligence.
This is kind of like a sales pitch slide, but it's just motivating.
Like, why do you care? These are controversial design decisions that we're kind of doing
differently from a lot of other folks.
And so, you know, why are we off our rocker or is there something to it?
I think we've seen a lot of good feedback from people just saying positive things.
You know, that's like the left hand column, but also comparing us favorably against
AIDs in terms of what the agents do, how far it's able to get and even against other
agents. So there's design decisions that are baked in here that I think have made
AMP just do better or feel better than some of the other coding agents on the market.
And a lot of that ties back to our approach to doing, you know, rag for the agent.
OK, so let's talk about that architecture and the design of that rag engine.
So before we get into that, you know, what motivates this differing architecture?
It's really a shift in the kind of like user interaction paradigm.
So like the dominant interaction paradigm of the chat world, the human was very, very
much in the inner loop of interacting with the model.
Basically, like every LLM turn, you had a human checking output.
You know, you say, like, write a function that does X and then it would generate some
code. And you're like, not quite like that.
More like why you refine it.
And then once you were happy with the change, you'd say, OK, now take this change and
apply it back to my file, go edit the file and apply that change.
And so you'd have a lot of ping pongs with the model back and forth just to make one
sort of like atomic change in the agentic world.
It's now possible just to articulate what you want up front, have the agent do a lot
of work, a lot of validation on its own, reading the file, editing files, searching
around for related files, executing bash commands, checking compiler output.
And so it's able to get much further.
And with the proper prompting, we've seen much stronger success with it just being
able to cut down on the ping pong and just do the thing that you want to do so you
can not have to babysit it and also get things done much more quickly.
So this interaction paradigm shift.
You know, motivates an architectural shift.
So if you look at the architecture of rag chat bots, most of them had a pretty thick
client and also a pretty thick and monolithic context engine.
And that's because of two things.
One is the context engine was doing a lot in this case.
It had to kind of like basically like fetch relevant context snippets for all types of
user queries and using that, it would then place those relevant snippets into the
context of the chat.
LLM the coupling of the context engine in the chat LLM was also fairly loose.
That's why you saw a lot of people ship bottle selectors that allow you to kind of
like interchange the model in use.
And then lastly, you did have a pretty thick complex UI for a lot of these
applications because the model is the context engine couldn't always magically
infer what was the relevant stuff to fetch.
And so you had like a fallback for humans to be able to kind of like ergonomically
tag in the appropriate context.
Now in the agent world, the combination of a tool use model with the proper set of
tools is able to essentially replace a lot of the intelligence that the context
engine previously had to provide.
So really the core of the logic is more in these agentic feedback loops and how
you design the runtime and how you tie together agents and different subagents
and how they connect with tools.
That is a much bigger part of the kind of like application development paradigm.
And so you need a thinner client because there's not as much human intervention and
you also need a far less monolithic context engine.
In fact, you can kind of decompose that context engine into a set of smaller, more
primitive tools.
And then it's really all about the coupling between the tool use LLM and that set of
tools and how it's able to take advantage of those tools to get further and further
successfully.
So, you know, if you look at the rag engine set of features for the chat LLM era, you
had, you know, typically this is probably like, you know, the median rag engine, right?
Like you had a basic, you know, keyword index, VM 25.
Then you trained an embedding model.
You probably fine tuned that on your domain specific data to get it to perform better.
You probably had domain specific chunker of some sort to be able to do document
chunking in a way that made sense.
And then on top of all that, you slap a reranker to basically, you know, aggregate
results from these lower level retrieval mechanisms and then rewrite them properly.
Maybe you have some intent detection on at the very top to route between different kind
of like reranking engines because you have different types of queries.
Like we built all of this for the previous era of coding assistance.
And then it's like you look at some of the most popular agents on the market today and
like, what's the main tool they use?
It's like, correct.
Now that's an oversimplification.
I think like, you know, now you're starting to see more retrieval tools being leveraged
by, by agents as well.
But the, the fact of the matter is, it's like a basic agent that uses a very simple
retrieval tool can match the performance of, of some of the, you know, very fancy
monolithic rag engines, plus chat LLMs in the previous era.
And so if you want to see this in action yourself, you know, there's a blog post
that a member of our team wrote called how to build agent.
If, if you want to do it yourself, just read the blog post and follow the instructions,
but you can also have an agent just read through the blog post and generate an agent
yourself. It'll create a very simple agent with a very simple set of tools.
But it gives you something to play around with and see, like even with like a simple
kind of like 101 basic version of an agent, these things are pretty intelligent and
pretty smart.
Okay.
So, I basically just said, you know, rag, as you know, it is, is dead in our opinion.
So what does, you know, rag look like in the era of agents in our view?
It's, it's really about three main categories of considerations.
So number one is what sort of tools do you give the agent?
And so you have tools in the retrieval sense where some of the tools are about retrieving
the relevant context.
But there's other forms of tools that also are becoming more important.
And so if you take a step back, like what was the motivation for rag in the first place?
It was really just to get the bottles to be able to do more things for you in kind of
like productivity oriented environments.
And so one of the things we say is that, you know, rag is not strictly about retrieval
anymore. It's really about just molding the underlying model to be able to do what you
needed to do in a particular application setting or for a specific set of workflows.
And so the tools, I like to categorize them as breaking down to like three main things.
One is just context retrieval.
That's more of the sort of like traditional rag sense.
The other, the second point is like feedback.
So how do you get more feedback about what the agent has done and then planning to
structure agentic flows over kind of like a longer period of time?
The second main category of consideration for agents is really about context window
management. And so as we try to stretch agents to do longer and longer change of
automation, the context window size sort of emerges as kind of like a key constraint.
And so, you know, how do you what do you do to ensure that the context window remains
focused? The model doesn't get confused.
How do you avoid tool overload?
Do you do compaction or something like that so that you can kind of like continue on past
the limits of some of these context windows?
And then the fourth point is, I think, the emerging as like the most important point
for us, at least, is the use of subagents as a mechanism to effectively conserve or
extend the context window of the main agent.
And then last but not least, it's the model choices is really important here.
And I would emphasize again the point that like we've kind of gone past the era in
our view of being model agnostic because there is much tighter coupling between models
and set of tools. Now, you really have to be intentional about the model that you use
for any particular agent or subagent.
And so just to dive into a few concrete examples here, so if you look at the
construction of the toolset for AMP on the right hand side, that's the tool panel for
AMP. And so the way to think about this is at the bottom, you have the toolset for
AMP, and then at the top, you have your list of tool providers.
These are external services or packages that will provide a suite of tools.
And then at the top, you have all the tools that each provider provides.
And so if you look at the main tools that AMP uses to fetch context, it's really a kind
of like a suite of I don't want to say simple tools because some of these things
are simpler and less modelistic than your kind of like standard chat based rag engine.
So, you know, grep and glob, those are great command line tools.
We also have a search subagent that stitches together some of those primitive tools into
more of like an agentic flow where it will do multiple queries and refinement of queries
in succession to find the right thing.
It pulls from the web, you know, documentation on the web, as well as pulling from specific
services that might have relevant context about things that you're trying to do in your
development environment.
So it's really this like combination of tools.
And then the reason why we separate out the kind of like tool provider interface from
the tool selection interface is that what we found is one of the things that you want
to avoid is kind of like tool overload.
So one of the things that we've observed with the advent of things like the Model Context
Protocol, MCP, MCP is great.
It encouraged everyone and their mom in the world to think about how to make services
ready for agentic consumption and how to package up the context that those services
contain for use and consumption by agents.
But naively just throwing in all the tools that an arbitrary MCP server defines, that's
a great recipe for just confusing the heck out of the underlying model.
Because again, that context window, you have a limited amount of context and each piece
of context that is thrown in there that isn't relevant to the task at hand ends up being
a potential confounder for the model that might confuse it or make it make less intelligent
choices down the road.
OK, so this is kind of like the set of tools here is sort of encompasses what would be
known as like traditional rag, but for the AMP agent.
But as I mentioned before, I think a really another very important element of kind of
like augmented inference in the agent world is these feedback loops.
So in addition to fetching context from other sources, you also have the context that is
provided by the environment itself.
So agents, unlike chat LLMs, they do things in the environment, right?
Like they edit files, they execute code.
And what that means is they can also execute things that verify whether they did the right
thing or not.
So like you could use bash to execute the unit tests and get feedback that way.
A very popular MCP server is the Playwright MCP server that allows you to take screenshots,
or I should say it allows the agent to take screenshots and iterate against what's in
the screenshots straight for front end development, especially when coupled with something like
Storybook, which makes it easy to isolate specific UI components and go back and forth.
There's the editor diagnostics, which is really just an easy way for the agent to consume
compiler output.
And then you have other services like Postgres.
So, you know, very popular MCP server for us is the Postgres server.
We use Postgres on our back end.
And so when it's making a change to the Postgres schema, in our case, you can actually
go and inspect the schema and the dev environment based on what it did.
So you have context, you have feedback loops, and then once you start stitching these things
together, it's a natural tendency for users to want to get to kind of like longer and
longer chains of automation.
And so actually helping the model structure its actions over a longer horizon of things
becomes more and more important.
So we're moving way past the point where humans have to babysit every single model
inference point, the point where now instead of I think the ideal interactions instead
of making it easy for the human to intervene, it's really about helping the user convey
more of the context upfront for the model to do the right thing.
And then at the product layer, we've added this kind of like to do mechanism.
So this is kind of like the planning light product version of the more complex planning
that people do.
And so AMP will typically when asked to do a more complex or non-atomic task, it will
add things to its to-do list so it can kind of like structure itself to avoid just like
diving into the first rabbit hole it thinks of and going down that rabbit hole and writing
a lot of code that isn't useful.
Okay, so that's a bunch about how we're doing context and planning.
I think a lot of what we think about now in terms of stretching the capabilities of agents
and LLMs is about extending the effective context window.
And so you have things like compaction, which is basically saying like, okay, this interaction,
this thread with the agent has extended to the point where it's now filling up the context

Let me summarize the thread and then compare it to the actual context window.
And so we're going to do a lot of this compaction, which is like a very complex
model that's going to be a very complex model that's going to be a very complex model that's
going to be a very complex model that's going to be a very complex model that's going to be a very
complex model that's going to be a very complex model that's going to be a very complex model that's
going to be a very complex model that's going to be a very complex model that's going to be a very
complex model that's going to be a very complex model that's going to be a very complex model that's
is subagents. So AMP implements subagents in a couple different places.
The very first subagent we implemented was actually this code based search subagent.
So oftentimes, when you ask AMP to do something and needs to look up context,
and it can't get the context from simple indications of grep or glob or other basic
Unixy tools, it will actually invoke a subagent to go and poke around the files in the same way
that human might to find the right thing. And this is nice because all the exploration it does
when it's refining different queries, trying different things to find the thing that the user
is looking for, that eats up context window. But because it's a subagent, once it's found the right
set of snippets and returned them to the main agent, you can essentially throw away the context
that was used for the subagent. So the code based search subagent often eats up a good portion of
the context window, but it's not the context window of the main agent. So it doesn't prevent
the main agent from taking the relevant snippets and doing more with that. In addition to the code
based search agent, which is a very specialized subagent, we also implement a generic subagent.
So this is essentially just like recursion, but for agents, right? So AMP can effectively
invoke itself to perform tasks in parallel. And we find that this is common in cases where you're
trying to make one type of change in many instances or do one type of retrieval across
many different cases. So this is sort of like a toy example. Just the other day,
I was thinking to myself, yeah, I don't have much time to read Hacker News these days,
but it'd be great to stay up to date with what's going on. AMP, let's just have you spawn a subagent
to summarize every single top post on the HN front page, produce a high quality summary,
and then the main agent can gather all those artifacts together and summarize the key points.
The same scatter gather approach can apply to unit test generation and a bunch of other things
that are kind of common in coding use cases. And then last but not least, the most recent
subagent we've added is this subagent that we call the Oracle. And the reason we call it the Oracle
is because it thinks really hard and is much better at getting to the right answer just by
thinking. And this one is noteworthy because more and more we're playing around with the
capabilities of combining different models intentionally in subagents. So earlier I said
that the model agnostic architecture is going away because it's hard to rip out the main thinking
model and replace it with some arbitrary other model. I think more and more you're going to see
application architectures use models intentionally. So rather than having something that's very
swappable, it's like, okay, you want a specific subagent to do a specific type of task. Hey,
there's a model out there. In this case, we use 03 that's really good at this like nuanced thinking
and teasing through tricky to understand code. Let's actually use that as part of the agent
construction here so we can take advantage of the abilities of that model without having to
adopt some of its weaknesses for things like tool use and agentic composition of those tools.
Okay, so on the model selector, why do we think that that is now an anti-pattern? I think this
probably goes against some of the things that you've heard from builders of other agents,
but this is our salty take. And when we try to think about why it is, we think the model selector
ought to go away in the architecture of agents. It's really this. On the left-hand side is the
basic loop of chat LLM based AI applications. So this is like the loop of the quote unquote chat
GPT wrapper, right? Like you have the human do something, then you go retrieve relevant snippets,
you put it in the LLM. It's very simple and there's not a lot of tight coupling between the retrieval
mechanism and the model here. So it's quite easy to say like, oh, let me take the same relevant
snippets and put it into, you know, KimiK2 or 03 rather than, you know, Sonic and let's take a
look at the results. And that's, there's often something like a, that is kind of like cool and
interesting for an end user to do. If you look at the flow in like an agent though, it's much more
complex. So like you have the human making requests, these are forwarded to the agent LLM. And then that
LLM has a bunch of tools that it can use and each tool description, it becomes part of the effective
prompt that then is kind of like coupled with that LLM to get it to effectively determine, you know,
when to use or not use a tool. And then in addition to that, some of these tools are agents themselves
with their own set of bottles that are kind of like tuned to that specific use case. And so if we were
to offer up to end users a way to easily swap out any of these LLMs for another model that's not been
tuned to those tool descriptions or has other kind of like tool use capabilities or characteristics,
it's just a recipe for a bad user experience. And I think you've seen this now in a couple instances
where like a new model is released and there's some other tool that integrates it into the model
selector. And then the model provider gets mad. I think like Elon got mad the other day because
he thought that another tool wasn't doing the latest release of Brock justice. And so for us,
yeah, this is basically why we think the choice of model has to be much more intentional for building
agents. One last thing that's kind of a little bit orthogonal to the whole discussion of RAG and
technical architecture, but I do think that it's an exciting time to be building applications because
number one, there's much more interesting application architectures that can be built on top of
agentic LLMs. And two, from a user's point of view, I think agents are far more high ceiling tools
than chat based applications. So chat based applications were always constrained by
sort of like the retrieval engine model. And so the way to think about them is a lot of them were
kind of like search plus plus. It's like get the search results and then generate an answer.
And that's great. It can do a lot of things, but it doesn't yield a lot of, it can only go so far.
Whereas with agents, you can actually prompt them to do much more complicated things, but you do have
to get better at prompting to be able to do that. So one of the things that we built into AMP is
this built in kind of collaboration mechanism where you can see all the threads that your
teammates are having with the agent. So you can see like who's using the agent or the agent
for which use cases, for what tools, how long are their threads, how do they prompt.
I've learned so much just from like watching how other people on the team are doing prompts.
There's some people who write like paragraph, you know, like essay long prompts and are able to get
enough context in there to get the agent to do much, much more. And so I think the way to think
about this, it's important to realize that as an application builder, the agent could be a much
higher ceiling tool and to ensure that you're not kind of like dumbing it down artificially
just to make it seem, you know, more magical for kind of like newbie users.
Okay. So in short, like we think that it's really important to think from first principles when
building agents. A lot of the best practices that people developed during the chat LLM era,
I think are no longer relevant at best. And in the worst case, actually, you know, run in direct
tension with what the emerging best practices for building agents are. And so, you know, when I talk
to other people building agents, I usually kind of bring up, you know, three things or three
questions. You know, first, it's like, what do you cargo cull thing from the chat LLM era? Have you
actually thought about whether that is the best construction for building an agent? Two, are you
treating context not as a retrieval, not just as a retrieval exercise, but as this kind of like
broader set of things that provide relevant information for the context window? And then
three, are you thinking about how to unlock the ceiling of what agents can do? Because I think
the potential here is far greater for them to be able to automate and accelerate much more of
knowledge work. But it does require thinking about how you design intentionally for that,
rather than, you know, just how do I provide the smoothest ladder for new users into this
product experience? Because often those two things run in tension too, you know, like making it quick
and easy for new users versus preserving the power of composition and the ability to do more complex
things for your power users. So yeah, it's kind of like a whirlwind tour of a lot of the things
we've been thinking about with AMP. Thank you all for listening. And I'll turn it back to Jason,
I think is going to take some questions now. Yeah, I mean, I think it's gonna be clear that
like the whole sourcecraft team has thought pretty deeply about this kind of like code experience,
especially because I think you guys have such a rich history in thinking about code understanding.
Um, which brings to the first question, which everyone is curious about, which is
for AMP, do you guys see a lot of use cases in the AST aware tools? I know recently, I think maybe
today I saw that the tab model uses the LST. I'm curious where you guys are thinking about this.
I used to wish I could have like code mod support for coding agents when I was doing
like these massive refactors. Yeah, so that's a very kind of like the answer to that is,
um, I guess it's complicated, but I'll try to condense it. I think what we've learned over time
is each the deployment of like static analysis tools and AST aware tools should be motivated
by the shortcomings that you see in any particular use case. So it's not a good formula to say like,
Oh, I have this great thing that's like semantically aware or like is aware of pipes.
Um, let me go and like bake that into the agent architecture
straight away and make that requirement. Um, I think that is at this point just kind of like premature
optimization or premature, uh, uh, fanciness to a certain extent, um, because LMS are so
new, uh, the classic saying in machine learning is, you know, like do the simple thing first,
the brain dead simple thing first, establish a baseline and then, and then you can explore,
like fancier, uh, methods, uh, fancy tools and fancier capabilities to see if they actually move
the needle. Um, and so I think in certain cases, like the, the tab completion, um, being able,
uh, to be aware of what imports are pulling in turns out to be like pretty useful for improving
the quality of predicting the next edit that the user is going to make. That's a, that's a case
where those tools come in handy. Um, for the, the main like AMP agent, it doesn't need to use any of
those tools. You can plug them in, but we kept them out of the kind of like built-in set of tools
because, uh, for a lot of languages, at least, you know, currently they do not add that much value.
I see. Yeah. I will say if AMP ever considers going down to the world of like code mods,
you know, I feel like every time I want to be able to rename a function, it has to edit like
45 files. Yeah. Those have been a specific example where I've been thinking about like building a CLI
to do some of these code mods for, for larger migrations. Do you feel like it's also about
just like the bitter lesson, you know, like in the future, these LLMs will just know and it'll be,
it'll just have the awareness of the AST. I think the bitter lesson comes down to, uh,
is the thing that you're trying to do, can it be captured by a data collection of some application
that is currently being used by the people doing the work that you're trying to do, or can it be
emulated in some sort of like synthetic environment? And if the answer is yes, then
the days of that approach are numbered, but you could, you could still build it as a vehicle to
generate the training data, right? Like compilers, stack analysis tools, all these played an important
role in, in generating the data that were used to tune these models to be able to make effective use
of, of tools in a coding setting. Yeah. I mean, I think the other question people are really dying
to think about is just sort of outside of the coding session, uh, coding setting, like how much
of this do you feel like applies to, you know, general, maybe like QA systems or poor generation
systems? I obviously have my own feelings about this, but I'm also curious, you know, do you guys
use these like AI tools from other vendors and go, I wish they had sub-agents, I wish they,
I hate this model ticker. You know, it's funny that you mentioned that, like, you know, because
AMP has this like thread sharing capabilities, like trivially simple, just to peek at what other
people are using it for. Um, and still like the dominant use cases for like coding and technical
Q and A, but like every now and then I'll see people being like, Hey, can you do some research?
I think I saw one thread the other day, which like, you know, my, my, uh, kitchen sink garbage
disposal thing broke. Can you like search the internet for appropriate things and help me fix
it? Um, and so I think there, there is a lot that sort of like generalizes to other use cases
here and you see people using that. Um, I, I do think that there is some limit. Um, so I think the,
from what I've seen, the things that do generalize well are the things that kind of look like,
the workflows that can be done using a set of tools that look more or less like the set of,
of tools that you have access to in your development environment, in, in your terminal.
So like, you know, basic search, uh, basic code execution, basic retrieval, relevant documents.
There's a whole bunch of knowledge work that kind of falls under the umbrella of like, okay, like
as long as you have some tools that look like that, you as the human can get it done. And therefore
like the agent can probably do a pretty good job as well. I think there's other forms of knowledge
work. Um, like I have a friend who's, who's working on like a finance, uh, AI who's, who's building it
to do more like fundamental, uh, sort of analysis. I think there's some tools and,
and some forms of reasoning there that don't have, uh, like good mappings to the type of stuff that
people do in the development environment. And so there it's, it's a bit harder to generalize that.
Interesting. It's funny you say that because I just saw that cloud code announced cloud code for
finance, but I guess it's a different kind of analysis. It's really around like the portfolio
of tools. Yeah. Yeah. I think there's probably a lot of workflows within, you know, finance is such
a big umbrella. There's probably a good number of flows that do fall into their umbrella, but for
certain specific types of workflows. And I think you will see this in every knowledge domain. It's
like the workflows that can kind of be captured by the RL environment of the models. Those will
start to be more and more automated. And then what's left, which is a tiny amount of the
workflows right now that will expand to being, you know, the lion's share of what takes up people's
time, because that's where, you know, the interesting alpha remains. Yeah. I don't make sense.
Even this idea of like, I guess, I guess I'm curious about this question too. Like
you mentioned that searching for the information is actually very context, you know, expensive.
And so we might clean off a subject agent. Does this sub agent sort of preserve the history of
the main agent before it forks off? And like, does that sub agent also have more sophisticated
tools? Is it also graphed for the most part? It has a different set of tools than the main agent.
It does not inherit the context window of the main agent. For that sub agent in particular,
we found that the existing context ended up being more confounding than useful. There are other
forms of sub agents where that history can be more useful. So I would say that's like a hard
and fast rule. It's really dependent on, you know, what the agent is trying to do. Yeah. I imagine
there's like a preserve history and sub agent flag and just do some experiments to figure out
if it's better or worse. I'm curious then it's like, how do you start evaluating things like this?
In a lot of what I've been doing, maybe earlier last year was we have a search tool. It is
retrieving text chunks, the text are sort of relevant or not relevant. So there is a recall
metric. And if you can go from 68 to 72, we're doing better. Now that agents are so persistent,
well, if it's 62, it'll just take nine more searches. Yeah. And you get the same results.
How do you think about designing the tools versus the result of the LLM capability?
Oh, I think you cut out for a little bit. I got you at how do you think about designing the tools
versus? Yeah, like improving and designing the specific tools versus the whole system.
Right. Yeah, that's a really good question. I think it's a combination of trying the tool out in the
product itself and seeing how it feels. And then having evals to make sure that you're not regressing
some other form of behavior. I do think that this concept of a tool provides pretty good
encapsulation of like, hey, you're trying to make it do something, you encapsulate with a tool,
and then the decision is whether you turn that tool on by default or not. And that's much nicer
than making it all or nothing for every one of your users. That being said, you still have to be
careful. And so I think of when you build a new tool, it really should be motivated by some
pain point that you felt as a personal user. And so all new things, in my view, are motivated by
vibes. Like that thing was painful, I want it to be better. You should never use evals as a way to
guide your product development because evals are always downstream of the vibes. Evals are in some
sense an attempt to quantify the vibes. And so I think of evals more as unit tests or smoke tests
for like, hey, these workflows currently work well, I want them to continue working well, even as I
make changes to make some of the things that don't work well better.
Yeah, I mean, I think I definitely apply even the non-coding examples, like I think some of the
biggest, like commenting some of the biggest successes that we had in like traditional
rag tools is, okay, well, it turns out like if we just had specific tools to search contracts and
contact information, all of a sudden the agent can now combine them to figure out, you know, who do
we need to harass to get something done? And like, who's the right person to contact and say, okay,
well, just message the guy's boss instead. And all of a sudden, like your legal workflow becomes a
lot more productive. Yeah, I guess let me take another look at some of these questions. And as
I do that, I'm curious if you have answered this question, which is, as we're building these agents
these days, what do you think is something that people are not asking themselves as they sort of
set forth on this journey? That's a good question. When I take a look at what other people
are doing, I think people that are building in the coding domain, in some sense, are like,
they see a preview of what is going to roll out to agents in other domains, because like coding is
such a kind of early use case of agentic models. And so I think what people in the coding domain
more and more so are starting to realize is, like, how many of the best practices of like the
previous AI coding paradigm no longer apply. And I don't think that that message has bled out to
other knowledge domains quite yet. And so I still see a lot of people focusing on more on, like,
workflow construction and switching that together rather than like true agents and other knowledge
domains. And some of that might be justified, because you never know how well this stuff will
generalize until you actually go and try it. But if I were working other domains, I would at least
be trying the agentic approach. And the good starting point is just build a simple agent
yourself. They're not that difficult. It's not like agents aren't magic. It's really just,
what's the term? It's just like invoking the model in a for loop. Like, you can think of it like that.
And sub agents are just like nested for loops, in a sense. There's a lot more that comes from just
applying them and building them in practice. But that's the basic gist of it. And so I think
if you're building with AI and you haven't tried this agentic tool use thing, I think
at the very least you should try it and see how it works and do a spike to see where it gets you.
Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. I feel like oftentimes when we host these kinds of sessions,
people are asking, like, what frameworks do you use? What tools do you use? And almost everyone's
answer has been, like, the first agent is 300 lines of code. You just sort of make a tool class
at a for loop and you can really see how things break and fail. You mentioned sort of like
inheriting the chat bot assumptions when building these agents. I feel like, and maybe correct me
if I'm wrong here, you know, today is the agent in the sidebar, it's in the CLI. I think some
companies are exploring things like background agents. Like, do you feel like that's generally
the correct direction? Or is there something even like more interesting that you feel like is
underexplored? I think background agents are very compelling. I think that's definitely going to be
a thing. I tend to think that the way that a lot of folks are approaching it is kind of like too
vertically integrated. So, like, as a developer, I think the truly powerful tools are, like,
simple and composable. So if you think about the tools that have really stood the test of time,
they're like the Unix tools. They do one thing, but that one thing might be actually pretty
complex under the hood. But they're encapsulated in such a way that they're easy to reason about.
And then you can compose them and you can deploy them in different environments. I think that's why
the CLI form factor is so compelling right now. It's like I can use the CLI on my local machine,
but I can also deploy it into an arbitrary container where I've done the setup for how
that development environment ought to build because that's often very domain specific.
And the more vertically integrated approach I think can lead to, in the short term, like a
schnazier demo. It's like, oh, here's a cool video that I'm going to share out on Twitter of it doing
a bunch of things. And look, it's drag and drop. But I think in practice, what you see is those
solutions end up being brittle because there's a huge diversity of code bases. We've seen a huge
range of build systems, code base size, monorepo versus micro repo. And it just gets even weirder
the more you move up into the Fortune 500 and the code bases that power the world. And so I do think
that you can optimize for the Twitter hype if that's the case, and you build a vertically
integrated solution that demos well. But I think the long run, things will tend to pull towards
tools that are more composable, more Unix-y, and don't force a set of very opinionated choices on
the rest of the SDLC. I see. So maybe in the future, I'll expect like that app amp GitHub
action that I can just tag and just sort of get some work done that way. Yeah. I mean, the beauty
of the CLI is that anyone can create a GitHub action that does that themselves, right? Like
CLI, you don't have to wait for the first party to do it for you. And develop a fluff to build,
right? The magic thing about agents is like, it's not just end user experience that you can
ship to people. It's like, hey, try this in the editor. It's pretty good. But also, like you can
script with this thing, like put it in a bash script. But I think we're thinking more about
ways in which we can make it possible to program agents using actual programming language as well.
So stay tuned for that. I was excited. Maybe I'll wrap up with one more question, actually around
Billing. Saurabh asks, how does the billing work so far? For example, when he has CloudMax,
they use like one API. Because you guys are using tons of different models,
how are we thinking about API usage in the enterprise?
Yeah, so it's really simple. Like the AMP has a server. And so all the inference for all the
different models that we use get routed through that single server endpoint. And then we just
record how many tokens you're using against each API. And then we just bill you for the usage of
those inference APIs. So it's really simple, very transparent. No kind of like magic underneath the
hood. It's just usage-based billing routed through kind of like a single API endpoint.
That makes sense. Yeah, I think also I just find the thread experience to be really interesting.
I think as I grow my own team, it will be very cool to sort of see how people are using tools,
even give feedback and just say, oh, I was like, see how you've been doing this data science with
AI. Here's a couple tips. And then to more material. I think that's all. I think most of
these other questions are very similar. I guess one other question, maybe this just comes back to
evals, which is when do you lean on tools versus like the native capabilities of some of these
outlaw systems? I think maybe the example is pointing to something like search. Yeah, so
actually I would say search is not a native capability of any LLM. There's some model
providers that provide a search endpoint, which I would just say just use whatever works for you.
So I think the thing to recognize is that there are many things that are packaged up as
sort of like magic, but actually things are quite simple. Like if you want to use web search,
you can use free web search. That's what we use. I think it's what some of the model providers
actually use underneath the hood as well. There's other APIs. In terms of what do we
decide to build into, build as tools versus just rely on the model to do. There's some tools,
for instance, that do deeper thinking, like the Oracle tool. It's really motivated by what the
model can't do. So I think if you're building these things, just do the simple thing first,
see what the model is capable of, see if you can prompt in that direction. And then when you hit a
wall, that's when there's motivation to build an additional tool or build something fancier.
Right. And that makes sense. I definitely have learned a lot about sort of how I should be
thinking about these agents, especially in the non-coding workspace. I think by the end,
people just come up with a black box, like everything I learned from code and how to build
things. I do think one of the things we've been exploring more is having a smaller tool that
helps you find the filters you need to search to pass into the bigger tool. Even if you just have
generic document search, maybe I can filter by subdirectories or filter by owners or teams
and projects. And building that portfolio of tools makes sense. But having a subagent do that now
feels very obvious because it is like 15 tool calls. It's like burning up your tokens.
Great. I mean, we have like five minutes left. If there's anything else you wanted to say,
I think you shared your Twitter. But yeah, if you have any other message for the audience,
if we just shoot that off. Otherwise, we'll send some notes in the end.
If you're coding professionally or on the side, we'd love to hear your feedback from trying it
about, we built it for professional developers. Like I said, from kind of like rethinking things
from first principles. But as almost like a side effect, we've seen a lot of people
who are more on the novice end of the spectrum get use out of it as well. And so whatever your
level of experience is in building things and in code, we'd love to hear from you.
Our team is very online and responds to feedback very quickly. And we think that
what's motivating for us is just to see it used in the wild and to get that feedback. That's like
the dopamine hit for us day to day. And there's so much that's exciting, that's changing about
how code is written. And we're just eager to be kind of like on the frontier and discovering
how agentic coding ought to be done in real time. And so much of that is just like
listening to our users and learning from them in terms of like interesting creative ways in
which they've discovered they can use this tool.
Great. Thank you so much. We will send the recording and hopefully I'll be able to share
with you some of the coding agents I've been working on through that blog post. I really
recommend everyone find that out. It's really mind blowing to see AMP just like create an agent
in about five minutes. It's crazy. What a time to be alive.
Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Great. Piyang, thank you so much. Thank you everyone else listening.
It will send some follow ups over email. Take care everyone. All right. Thanks.
