To most people who have been in any kind of embeddings work or search work, I think nodes
does not really need an introduction.
I think for the past couple of years, I've joked that a lot of the cutting edge rag work
that people are doing now just felt like a lot of my intern projects when I was fine
tuning embeddings in 2017, 18, and a lot of that was hoping that we could average word
to vectors in a sentence using Jensim and hope that things worked well or use some topic
modeling.
And it was in 2019 when you dropped a sentence transformers and sentence BERT and it kind
of really made a lot of things click in terms of how we can process a lot of text.
And at that time, I was searching over comments and product feedback and product descriptions.
And then since then, you've also sort of co-authored Beer and MTab, which is basically the benchmarks
that we all quote when we look at how models perform across multiple domains and languages.
Again, like a very core part of embedding models.
And next week, we'll have Proma talk a little bit more about how they do generative evals
and create their own personal benchmarks rather than using MTab.
But generally, I think there's been a few people that I know that have sort of worked
on semantic search for this long.
And now you're the VP of AI Search Ecto here.
You just shipped the embed for models, which is my understanding is it's going to be long
context over images and text.
And I think one thing to call out to a lot of people who I worked with in the past, which
is that historically there were things like clip style embeddings, but they were really
much trained on captions.
So you could find a picture of a giraffe or a picture of a red car.
But it would never work on things like tables and charts and diagrams.
And I think in bed for these kinds of models, the first time I've seen them really work
at a very large scale.
And so I'm really excited to welcome Nils to present.
And so the stage is yours.
Yeah, happy to be here.
So in the talk, I will talk about text rack, vision rack, embed for challenges on
vision LMS and talk lightly on how we operate and how we work as a team to train
like these foundation models.
But then also looking forward to questions you have at the end to dive deep on sections
you'll find interesting.
But on the background, so actually here, what we do is like we train these foundation
models. So we train foundation models for generator, for command model, foundation
models for embeddings and re-rank, which is my line of expertise.
And then we specialize in like these secure enterprise deployment.
So we target enterprise customers often in like the most regulated industries like
healthcare, banking, telecommunication, critical infrastructure, and then bring these
technology into the environment.
And what me and my team are working on is like these compass products, so the
intelligent search and discovery product.
And it works extremely well.
So it's built on top of like the different models, has several more models included.
But you really see the difference if you do like a comparison against embedding.
So sadly, a lot of people like still in the field just do embeddings.
I think, OK, that's like the golden egg.
That's what we can do, use for everything.
But you really see the difference between kind of like an embedding solution and like
a fully fledged enterprise search solution.
So here we have like some enterprise data.
It has invoices, tabular data and some scanned documents.
And then if you have a very simple like which products the Jenkins buy from us and you
search over invoices, you see what's an embedding model.
It's not able to find Jenkins, so it finds Cox Moore.
And then also goes further like Combs and Hinton and Atkins.
So find like all type of invoices, but not from like the Jenkins one.
And then the full of flash like finds the right information.
Similar. It's also interesting to see like understanding of dates.
So if you have like a rec setup and say, hey, list me all invoices from 2016.
Again, just an embedding approach gets you an invoice from 2018 and 17 and 17 and 21.
So it's not really able to like understand that you have like a date of issue.
And then if I say, hey, list me all the invoice from 2016, then I have to look at like date
of issue and need to understand like 2016.
Similar, if it goes into like more complex, nuanced information.
So you say, hey, what's the GDP of Germany?
Again, embedding models are like very, very cost-grain topic driven.
So you ask like, hey, what's the GDP of Germany?
And then you see here, oh yeah, it has a lot of like GDP included, GDP, GDP rank, GDP growth, GDP per
capita and so on.
But sadly, that's about the economy of India.
And so it's not a good fit.
I asked like, what's the GDP of Germany?
And you all go down, like you see economy of China and economy of United States and Russia.
So it finds all the GDP heavy ones, but not like the GDP of Germany.
And for example, what we did is like a lot of like table understanding.
So table understandings of like a two-dimensional thing.
And you say, oh yeah, I have like a row with Germany of like some header with GDP.
And then you find the right information.
So in Embed4, we focus on like multimodality.
So still in enterprises, you have like these lawsuits.
Here's like a lawsuit from the early 2000s against the tobacco industry in the US.
And then if you say something like, hey, did customer raise concerns about negative
health effects of cigarettes?
You see when you use, for example, here the Google Ciclip model or the OpenAI Clip model,
find something for smokers like, hey, thank you for participating in the smoker survey.
That's great.
Here's your bonus.
And it's not really like finding a document with negative health effects.
While in Embed4, we see like here we have like the handwritten and then the customer
says, hey, the issue is one of life or death, cancer.
So raises concern about cancer and then that cigarettes causes cancers.
Cool.
So yeah, we constantly kind of like push the retrieval space as it's like an enterprise
users, it's extremely critical that you connect to the enterprise use case.
And if you really just use embeddings, it's like, yeah, maybe catch up on like the topics
and see like how the field evolved.
And we kind of constantly push.
So we started with like English paragraphs, multinational, like the
support for like large Cobra, a hundred billion of documents, structured data, tabular data,
low resolution images, text and image inputs, search for conditions like negations, ranges,
long text documents, higher resolution images, scanned documents and handwriting.
So we always see like, okay, what's like the next challenge?
How can we tap them in and how can we address it?
And you really, if you want to build like really good or really good, like a
solution in our experiences often breaks down on the retrieval part.
So the generative models, they're all very good, like whatever your, your flavors.
If you use open AI or Gemini or Quen or Lama, they are all very good, but it often breaks
on the retrieval part.
Like you retrieve shit, you present shit to the LM, the LM is producing shit output.
And then the user is complaining and say, Hey, why is the solution so bad?
Cool.
So today I want to talk about like from TextRack to VisionRack.
So very traditionally we have like these TextRacks.
So number one use case in enterprise is PDFs.
And we know PDFs have tables and we got like very creative when we designed these tables
in PDFs.
And then we use some parser like Markit down or Dockling or Unstructured, which is a
menu.
We use some parser like Markit down or Dockling or Unstructured.
And then we convert this to to a Markdown format.
And then often you see, for example, with tables of formats like this, where you see
like columns are shifted, rows are shifted.
You do text embeddings, you do text LM.
And then if you ask like a question, hey, what's the this case?
It's like the federal text rate for small businesses in 2014.
The text LM sees something like this, picks the wrong column, picks the wrong cell,
produces the wrong output.
And again, you lose the trust from the user.
You say, OK, this system is saying you have like a 3% text rate.
But in reality, it's maybe like an 11% text rate.
So I'm not trusting the system.
And very often, like in many, many cases, when you trace it back, you see that these
parsing step breaks, that doesn't understand the table because people thought like
multi-column, multi-row headers is a good idea.
Even worse, some customers have images like this.
So this is from like a Boeing manual where they kind of like put like a diagram.
How does a Boeing look from the inside?
And the question is like, OK, how do you convert this to markdown?
I saw some models trying to do like ASCII arts.
Some are really just extract the table.
That's not really helpful.
So when I say, hey, where's the fire extinguisher?
Where do I find it?
It's not really helpful to say, oh, yeah, I find that there is fire extinguisher, but
I need to like read the image and understand the image.
And so one trend, which are very exciting, is like going from text to text.
Going from text rack to vision racks.
So text rack is these original PDF to markdown, getting some markdown, doing some
text embedding, doing some text LLM.
And then you get like the question like, hey, where's the fire extinguisher?
Vision rack makes it so much easier.
You just take the page as the image.
You get an embedding of the image.
You put it to the vision LLM and then the vision LLM can reason on this.
And in terms of code, it's quite simple.
So here's like a Colab notebook of Cohi Embed 4 and Gemini Flash.
So you set up the respective API keys and then you say, OK, I have like
different images I want to embed.
So here's like several images on financial incomes from different companies.
You download the image.
You get like a base64 representation of the image.
You send the image to the endpoint, get the embeddings back.
And then at search time, you embed your question.
You get the embedding for the question.
You do like a vector search over the image embeddings in your query embeddings.
And then you get your most relevant image and then you send this to, in this case,
to Gemini or GPT-4.0 or GwenVision and say, hey, answer the question
based on the following image.
Don't use markdown.
Please provide enough context for your answer.
You say, OK, this is the image and that's my image.
That's my question. That's my image.
And it works really well.
So if you say, hey, what's the net profit for Nike?
First retrieval step finds this image.
And then the LMS can reason on it and say, hey, according to the Nike
income statement, the net profit is 0.8 billion.
You can also do a bit more complex, like what are the three largest
acquisitions from Google?
So it's able to read these information from the image like with Motorola and Mediant.
So even so, it's even like able to understand the logos.
So you don't have to ensure, for example, like in a PDF to markdown,
you will need to ensure that logos are translated correctly,
which can sometimes be a problem.
Like if there's just like the Apple for like the Apple company,
you're not really can be sure that the PDF to markdown extracts the right
name for the company.
Similar, you can also reason on the image.
So if you have something like what would be the net profit for Tesla
without interest, again, you find the right image
and then you see the LM based on the income statement provider,
the net profit is 0.4.
The diagram shows interest is 0.3 billion flowing
into the net profit and do the math, 0.4 billion minus 0.3 billion.
So it's one point billion.
So the profit for Tesla without interest would be one point
0.1 billion.
So it's like a very, very cool system.
It's like very easy to use.
And especially if you have like any of these complex visuals,
it's like very nice to reason on them.
You don't have to have the headache.
Like, how do I take this, put it to markdown,
do all the lines, do all the colors and all preserve it.
So it's extremely simplifies the rec system.
To give you a bit more history on vision embeddings, how they work
and how they evolved over time and like, yeah, what's what's the history on that?
So in early 2021,
OpenAI published CLIP, which became quite well known.
So CLIP is like two models.
You have a text model and you have an image model.
And then taking the text projected to a vector space,
taking the images projected to to an image, also to the vector space.
And as you said, Jason, in the beginning, it was straight
mostly on like image catching.
This is the cat sitting on a bench.
The text was restricted to like 70 tokens, was terrible text to text search.
Low resolution images had just like 224 pixels.
So only cat images were possible, but not really like complex text images.
And you have like these modality gaps.
So you see like all the text is here and all the images is here.
So if you do like a text to image search, that's OK.
But in enterprise, you often have like a mixture of modalities
in your corpus. So in your corpus, you have maybe some text documents
and you have like some image documents.
And then if you ask a question like, hey, what's the market share of AWS
and put it into the OpenAI CLIP model, it will retrieve JP Morgan Chase
as the leading leading the US banking sector.
And you're wondering like, hey, why is it not retrieving
like these nice infographic?
And the reason is because of like these modality gap,
like all the image embeddings and all the text embeddings
are like very, very far away.
And so what we worked on in Coheam embed V3 is
to align the vector spaces, so first make the text search really good,
up to 512 tokens, ensure that the text search cross-languages
works actually well, increase the resolution to 336 tokens.
It's better, but not great, and especially solve the modality gap.
So if you now go in and say, hey, what's the market share for AWS?
We find here the image was the AWS market share.
If you ask about the market share for JP Morgan Chase,
it will find you the text document for this.
So this was good for text and small images up to 336 pixels.
And but obviously we wanted to aim higher.
And this is like what we worked on like in embed 4.
We support high resolution images up to 1800 times 1300 pixels.
What's interesting, you can interleave text and images.
So before it was always ether text, x or one image.
So input a text or an image.
And now we can interleave text and images.
So if you think about like a map, you can have text and images interleaved.
OCR free text understanding and images in 100 plus languages.
So you don't need to do OCR.
You can just say, OK, this is my image, my handwriting, and I search on this.
And we also extended the context length to 128K tokens,
which will be quite critical to really understand
or be able to understand these high resolution images.
And there are various use cases, which are very cool.
So one is like scanned documents.
It used to be always terrible to work on scanned documents,
but now you just present the images of the scanned documents,
embed them and find them.
So now we know these whiteboards.
So we're like you're at an offsite.
You take, you write it down on the whiteboard, you take a picture.
And as like always, very hard to search on the text.
But here you can like search on the text and say, OK,
what's the ground rules we defined in the offsite?
Also an e-commerce,
nice use cases like an e-commerce, you have product images,
several product images, you have a product text, a title and a description.
And before that, it was like always hard, like you have five product images
and product descriptions.
So you had like six embeddings and they did not match well together.
But now you can just pass it in as one.
And then it produces for this embedding that stores information
across image and text.
So, for example, from this image, we know the jeans is blue,
but we don't know it's a Levis 501.
From the product text, we know it's a Levis 501 jeans,
but we don't know it's a blue jeans.
And but if you pass both in, you get like one embedding
for like a blue Levis 501 jeans.
So it's taking information from the image and information
from the text together,
blends it together and produces good embedding output for that.
Something I really liked is these prompted image search.
So imagine you spend your vacation on like a nice ranch
and I don't know, in Canada, you saw like a cool cowboy
wearing a nice cowboy hat.
You snap the picture and say, hey, the hat, please find me this hat in green.
And then this is like for a real customer.
It goes over the product catalog and then says, OK, in our product catalog,
this is the most similar hat we have in green.
And so it's like very nice when you can go and take the image,
describe how you want to change it and then search over the text
and images you have.
Cool. Want to cover a bit on like vision LMS, how they work,
how they operate and then talk more on challenging,
like scaling the resolution.
So far, the most critical was like to scale the resolution.
As mentioned, the first vision LMS,
they have like very low resolutions, like 200 or 300 pixels.
If you take like a PDF page and.
Yeah, converted to like these 200 pixels,
it's not readable anymore.
So you lose all the information if you run at like low resolution.
So. How these these vision transformer work,
they take the taken image and break it down into patches.
So patches is like small sub images, totally 14 by 14 or 16 by 16 pixels.
And then you linearize the sub patches
and then you add some position information.
So you say, OK, this is patch one, two, three.
So you kind of like count from one to nine.
And then you put it into like a standard transformer model.
The latest vision transformer like sick lip,
they can handle up to 500 times, 512 times, 512 resolution,
which is 1024 tokens.
But again, 512.
And resolution is like very, very hard.
So this is a PDF page from the sick look to paper
resized to 512 pixels.
Can still read it, but it's not really enjoyable to read it.
And if the text gets smaller, it's like very hard or impossible to read it.
And obviously, if you present an image to an embedding model
where the embedded model is not able to read the text, it's not able to.
Produce good embedding.
So if you cannot read it, you can't produce an embedding.
And so one big challenge is like, how do you do that?
It's like, how do you increase the resolution?
The resolution scales the tokens quadratically.
So if you go, let's say, 2000 times, 2000 pixels,
that would be like 20K image tokens.
And there's like no pre-trained vision transformer available for this resolution.
In general, like pre-training is seldom done at like 20K context length.
I mean, from TextLM, we know they claim, I don't know, 100K, 200K,
1 million, 10 million context lengths.
But they all, none of them has been trained in like these context lengths.
So if we look at like QEM3, they pre-trained at like 4K tokens.
And then using tricks to extrapolate to longer text.
So go from like 4K text tokens to like, I don't know, 128K tokens.
But these extrapolation is not really possible for images.
So for text, I can take the first 4000 tokens and then predict a token 4001.
But when I take an image and I resize it to 512 pixels, information gets lost.
So these kind of like, I just use fewer image tokens.
It's not really possible with images.
But the research community has been quite smart.
How to scale your vision transformers, vision IMS to higher resolutions.
So one paper I really like is the MiniCPM.
They have a vision transformer again with like standard low resolution 384 times 384 pixels.
And then they take full text, full image and resize it to like these small resolutions.
So take this big image and create like a resized version of it.
But then they also create like smaller sizes at 384 pixels, like A to F.
So they have kind of like a sliding window over the image.
And so the one image becomes seven images.
The seven images are encoded individually with the visual encoder.
And so at the end, you end up with like seven patches times 1024 tokens each.
So this one image is encoded as like 7K image tokens.
And then what they have is like these compression layer.
So as an input, it gets 1024 input tokens and outputs 96 output tokens.
So at the end, this image would be encoded as 670 tokens, which is then sent to the large language model.
So one image becomes 670 tokens and then it goes to the LM.
And then you can ask the LM to, hey, describe what happens in the image or how many caps do you see in the image?
And then the LM can reason on these 670 tokens.
Second approach, which was made popular by Quentoo Vision, is kind of like sliding windows.
So with the mini CPM approach, you have like this issue that you resize the image.
So you always force it to like 384 times 384 pixels.
So even if the resolution and the scale is different, you resize it.
So text can become like very blurry and strange.
Like if the scale and the ratio between width and height of the image is changing,
you get like very weird image looking.
And then you have like these individual patches.
And what Quentoo is doing is they don't resize, but they take the big image
and then they create like these smaller image tokens, like these 14 times 14 patches.
And then they use window attention.
So they don't do like a full attention over all these patches,
but they take like smaller windows of 112 times 112 pixels.
And then compute like the vision transformer on these individual small patches,
on these individual windows.
And then they just have like four layers that employ full attention across all images.
So this idea is a bit inspired from us humans.
We also don't see an image all at once at super high resolution,
but we have kind of like, we scan, scan over.
So we take our eyes, we scan over the image, and then see individual things in high resolution.
And then with the full attention across all image tokens and a few layers,
you're able to scale and get like global image understanding.
Training vision embedding models is surprisingly not that difficult.
So that idea is quite easy.
So you have these query document pairs.
So you have a query revenue of Nike in 2025, and then you have an image.
And when you say this image is like a good fit, and then you put this to vision LM, vision transformer,
it's outputting you an embedding.
And then you get like the query embedding and the document embedding,
and then you force them to be close in the vector space,
while negative documents should be distant in the vector space.
So the idea is quite easy how these systems are trained.
But the challenge is like the scale.
So with embed for what we wanted is like zero to n text and zero to n images on query and document side.
So the query side can just be a text, or it can be a text and images, or a text and multiple images.
Same on document side, it can be just a text or just an image, or many, many texts and many, many images.
And we want to make it like suitable for like text to text search, text to image search, image to text search, image to image search.
We want to make it suitable for like multilingual, like 100 languages, cross-lingual.
So let's say your documents is an Arabic PDF image and your query is Chinese.
And then you're able to like search in Chinese over the scanned documents you have in Arabic.
And yet added a lot of like complexities.
So each time you add like a new dimension to it,
the number of combinations scales, we built a lot of evaluations.
So at some point we broke Google spreadsheets, we're running out of columns to put numbers in.
We built evaluation for everything. So we had to test like for all these things.
For example, one test is like how well can the model find information if the text in the image is really tiny.
So we tested like different font sizes going from like 50.4 and going all the way down to like 1.4 size to then see, okay, how is the performance doing?
And then you do the same like, okay, if I search in English and my document is in Arabic, can I find it?
If my query is a Japanese note,
I have written on a napkin and have like English documents as text, can I find it?
So we built like hundreds and hundreds of training data sets with billions of these query document pairs
to really test for all these type of things that people could imagine.
Font size, font color, font types, like if you do very strange font types, is it able to find it?
If you put it into a handwriting, is it able to find it?
Is it changing if the text is black and the background is white or if you inverse the colors or if you make it really colorful,
like I don't know if all your text is like rainbow colored, is it still able to find it?
So yeah, we spent a lot of like evaluating, testing, improving training data.
And infrastructure became also a challenge.
So training text embedding models is comparably easy.
So if you take a text training corpus, it's maybe, I don't know, 10, 50 gigabytes of data.
And so our GPNode, they have like roughly a terabyte of memory.
And it's very easy. You take like all the 50 gigabytes of text data, you put it into memory,
you have a terabyte of memory, so it's not a problem.
But with these images, because images are so big, and especially if you kind of like unpack them back to like these patches and bitmaps,
you have hundreds of terabytes of data.
So you quickly run out of like memory.
You have to think about like the infrastructure, about your nodes,
and how to distribute it, how to move data around, what to load, what to load from object storage,
what to load from disk, what to put into memory.
So a lot of like work on optimizing and getting like a really high throughput so that you can
iterate well and quickly over these billions of query document pairs you created.
Cool. To summarize, Vision Rack, so the pro is very nice.
So you have no longer complex PDF to markdown pre-processing.
You just take the PDF, you take an image of the PDF, how it's shown to you as a user, you take that image, get the embedding, and then send that image to the LM.
It captures all like all these visual complex information like tables, figures, charts,
that are very hard to convert to text.
But there's also still some cons. So I think these are things we will be able to solve in the near future.
It's slow and more expensive. So one page as a text is about like 500 to like 2000 tokens.
But if you take a page as an image with a resolution of 1800 times 1200 pixels, that's 11k image tokens.
So it's yeah, 10, 20 times bigger, meaning running the LM is like 10, 20 times lower.
It's 10, 10, 10 to 20 times more expensive to do this on the vision domain.
You also see higher rate of hallucination with vision LMS.
So typically, LMS became very good, like very low hallucination rates on text inputs.
But if you say, okay, here's my PDF, you have 10 pages, and every page is an image,
you still see that vision LMS hallucinate, produce wrong information, reads wrong numbers,
and you invent stuff that's not in the paper.
I think these are things that are solved. So vision retriever works extremely well.
And vision LMS as of now, as of today, have limitations. They worked really well. If you
have like these single image inputs, like, hey, what's the net profit for Mike, you retrieve one
image and then ask the LM for that. But they don't work well yet on these. I have a question, I
retrieve 10 images, I send 10 images to the LM and then hope for a question and answer distilled
across these images because vision LMS are still too slow, too expensive, and hallucinates too much.
But probably give it a few more iterations on vision LMS, and these are hopefully problems of
the past, and then we can really get rid of PDF to markdown. Great. Thanks so much. And yeah,
looking forward to questions. Thank you. Thank you. So it sounds like for text,
you can buy something that's like top 50 text chunks, but if it comes to images,
maybe you can only do one or two before things get pretty confusing. One question that really
stuck out to me was actually a question that is, what are the most important evaluation sets or
metrics that you look into these days? And in terms of how you prioritize improving these metrics,
what would you say are the biggest ones? Is it just hallucination rate? Is there something else?
For retrieval or in general, like text rack? I would say for retrieval for now,
just because I think most people are curious about that.
I mean, for retrieval, you typically use NDCG at 10. So you say, okay, this is your query,
this is a document, these documents are relevant, and then you typically optimize
for NDCG at 10. You can also optimize for others, like recall at 10 or recall at 100.
Often the correlation between these scores is very, very high. And what we do is test very,
very broadly. So many people fall into the trap to very narrowly test it. So there's others like
Cokeman, CokePoly, GME, for example, are also doing. Vision retrieval, they test very,
very narrowly. They just test if your page has black text, white background, and is letter sized.
But then in reality, you have people have an image like this, one image like this,
or it's rotated, like it's rotated by 90 degrees. And then all these models really fail on it.
And so for us, what we do is we test long tail, like really say, I don't know, whiteboards,
we got like a bunch of whiteboards and say, okay, what are good queries on it? Can we find the right
information? Handwriting, can we do the handwriting on these? Found like supermarket, it's
one of my favorite, it's Hungarian prospects for supermarkets like Ali and so on, and Trader Joe's
to say, okay, like, where do I find the bananas in this prospect? And who has like the best deals on
bananas? And then it looks in Hungarian on the supermarket advertisements prospects with all
the special deals for this week. And this gives you like a very, very robust
model. So most models, they work well on like these MS Marko style, or MTAB style, like very short,
MS Marko is like 50 tokens on the query side. There they work well. And then people kind of
like battle on it. But in reality, in many enterprise use cases, you have something like this
that you say, okay, we have, I don't know, million scammed documents from a lawsuit
with handwriting, and we need to index that and search over it. And then you want more like a
general purpose model. I guess here's a question I think many people are actually asking a little
bit more about like what Cohere Compass is, you know, I'm curious, like for something like Cohere
Compass, like, are you still blending things like, you know, full text search, like, how does that
architecture really work? And I think a lot of people are curious about what the actual end to
product looks like. Yeah. So it's an on prem solution for intelligent search.
It solves multiple things. So first in enterprise, solve the connector issue. So in an enterprise,
you have your data in all different type of locations. For example, you have it like in
a SharePoint and in Microsoft Teams and in your Gmail, maybe. So it connects to these data sources,
puts the data from there, synchronize it with the vector database, and also implementing the
security and role permissions. So like, if I put my emails in it, only me should be able to read
the emails and not my coworkers. Similar in SharePoint, you have like these, oh yeah, this
is like a private SharePoint. What's the SharePoint just for the team? Like, how do you ensure this
security that really data is not leaked, like that you can't go to like the rec system and ask like,
hey, what is my manager thinking about my performance? Will I get a raise? And then it's
looking into the inbox. And then second part, more on the retrieval side, is like understanding the
data. So if you connect to a SharePoint, what data is in there? Is it a text? Is it a PDF? Is it an
Excel? Is it a video? Passing the image, blending text and images together. Because in many cases,
pure vision is still too limited due to these shortcomings. So you want to kind of like,
when the PDF is text, you want to put it as a text. But if the PDF has like complex visual elements,
you want to put it as complex visual element. So kind of like does the pre-processing creates
like the optimal representation for an LM. And then using different retrieval strategies to
find information, like how do you search on tables? How do you search on invoices?
So it's like a nice all-in-one solution. You can deploy, put your data in and get the right
results out. I guess to talk a little more about that, what has Coheer really learned about
these chunking techniques? Is it still just due to the case that you have some kind of like
800 tokens sliding window, 50% overlap? Are you thinking about things like contextual retrieval?
Obviously, there are like image boundaries and caption boundaries, but I would love to learn
more about that. So in terms of chunking, let's say if it's a PDF, page level chunking works
quite well, because humans, they typically spend a lot of time to create like a nice PDF to adhere
to page boundaries. So like seldom you find like a table that goes over like two pages, but it's
mostly like one page. We contextualize the information. So if you just look at like a
random page in a PDF, it's like very hard to say what's in there. So we go in, contextualize it.
Challenge on the contextualization is like how to scale it. So if you go like this in traffic
contextualization, it's okay if you do it maybe 4,000 PDFs, but some customers have a billion PDFs
and then it becomes very slow, expensive to contextualize it. So highly efficient contextualization.
But we're also tapping into more of like these understanding
gigantic use cases. So sometimes you find in a PDF that it says you can find the parameters for
the model in appendix A. And so that's a chunk. And then if you say, what was the parameters for
this model? And then you'll retrieve the chunk like, oh yeah, you can't find the parameters in
appendix A. You say, oh yeah, that's nice to know, but it's not really helpful for rec. Like for human,
it's okay because we read it and then we jump in the PDF. So we're working on like how can
the AI, the LM like jump in the PDF. So if it's reads like, oh yeah, the interesting details
in appendix A, how can it jump to appendix A and get the information from appendix A as well?
In those situations, is it going to be the case that we've somehow resolved appendix A to some
other text chunk or is it very much like, oh, our agent should have the grep tool and it should
just grep for like appendix A lowercase and then find it?
Yeah, we're working on that. So not sure what's like the best tool because again,
PDFs can be very diverse. So some PDF has like a digital table of content in it.
So you see like all the text, you see all the chapters and sections and you know the pages
and then you can jump to the right pages, but some PDFs don't have it or even worse, some PDFs
have it like a misleading table of contents. Sometimes you can grep, but then the challenge
can be like, say the section title is not as a text, but it's maybe like an image. So they
put it into like a very nice fall, rendered it in Adobe Photoshop and put it as an image.
But yeah, it's mostly what works is if you have like a good search system, you say, okay,
you put a filter and say, okay, only search on this PDF and you search for like appendix A
and then you hope that the search system is retrieving the right appendix A,
but it might be better to retrieve chunks where it's also referred to appendix A.
See, I see that makes a lot of sense. Yeah, I think in other coding agents, grep probably works a
lot better, but I can imagine half the text being images is probably going to make it very hard.
I think a lot of questions here are also asking about the synthetic data and data augmentation,
like how much I can imagine a lot of the translation, for example, could be multi-angle,
could be like machine translation, but how are you thinking about the investments you're making
in data augmentation and synthetic data generation? Yeah, so a challenge here really on the region
domain was like getting the data, like for text, it's easy to find like these question answer
pairs for text, you go to like stack exchange, you get the questions and the answers from stack
exchange, it's like overflow and this gives you like 100 million, 200 million question,
like question title, question body and different answers with different upfields,
but you seldom see this for images, like no one is really asking question as a large scale and then
say, okay, this image is relevant and has the right information, so no one has like these,
what's the market share for AWS, and then I get like this as an image as an answer,
or even worse for like a PDF page, no one is asking question about Ciclip and then you say,
oh yeah, this page for Ciclip is relevant, so we spent a lot on like data augmentation,
synthetic data generation, can be, we kind of like went to Latech, so we created a bunch of
different Latech styles, we put standard benchmark, let's say from Beer into Latech,
rendered it in Latech with different font sizes and colors and layouts, so let's say one column,
two column, three columns and then you get like a very nice comparison, so let's say you take the
natural questions data set from Beer and then you render it in all these different styles and you
know, okay, if I do a text to text search, that's my performance, if I do text to image search and
the image is, I don't know, gray text on white background with font size four, that's the
performance and then you see kind of like what's the delta between these, same with
lingual, so your machine translated to other languages for testing,
a lot of crawling, finding interesting data sets, so finding PDFs in Arabic, in Korean,
in Japanese, look for like where do you have this information, look for like parallel information,
so for example, stock companies, they often put out annual reports in English and the identical
report in Arabic, for example, and then collected these from, let's say Saudi Aramco,
where we say, okay, this is a report in English, that's the same report, every page aligns in
Arabic and then you use it for evaluation and testing, Wikipedia also, kind of like
go to Wikipedia and then print Wikipedia, so you call a Chrome, you say print it to PDF and then
you convert the PDF to images and then you have like the raw Wikipedia and you have the printed
Wikipedia of the same article and then you can ask questions on it or in a browser you render
the full Wikipedia as like one long image and then you can ask like a question, like, I don't know,
you zoom in and say, okay, for section five you ask like, I don't know, what was Barack Obama's
favorite sports in primary school and then on the other side you have like the full rendered
Wikipedia page and then you use this for training and evaluation, so it's a lot of synthetic data
generation, a lot of creativity, so many people fall into the trap to have like this one pipeline,
so if you look also at like, when Copali, it's like this or Vidore is like this one pipeline,
we they use to create data for training and sadly use the same pipeline for evaluation
and then it only works on really this one setup, but I think the key is really these diversity of
training, diversity of evaluation. I see, that makes a lot of sense. I was going to ask a question,
like, you know, given how these transformers have to unwrap images to a CWCIMS, to tokens, like,
how does it handle like multi-column layouts? I think in Japanese sometimes it's top down,
sometimes it's left right versus right left, but it sounds like the answer is just if you create
enough data you can just be robust all of that. Yeah, I mean, especially if you have like these
patches, it can be that an image is what the character word number is broken into like multiple
patches, so here we see, for example, like the human is in patch B and patch E and this happens
also with characters that are like, they are like on these boundaries and maybe these
characters are like very critical, that's like, yeah, so you need a lot of data
to really robustly so that the model knows, oh yeah, like the character or the word can be in
patch B, C and E, so that the model knows and it's not confused that the information is split
across these different patches. Makes sense. I mean, we have seven minutes left, I guess the
only question I'll ask now is, what is one question you wish we asked you?
Oh, that's a good question, I don't know. Okay, in which case I think I'm going to
pull in one question from the topic, I think there was a lot of people asking about
the voyage models versus the multi-modal models versus the embed for models, like how do you think
about what the similarities are, what the differences are, is it an actual thing,
yeah, I'd love to learn more about that. Yeah, so I don't know the internals of the
voyage model, so it's just speculation and what we see from benchmarking, what do we see from
voyage multi-modal is more, it feels more like these traditional approach, you have a text model,
you have an image model, you align them, what we see it struggles like understanding these
more complex images and it also struggles like when you interleave text and images, so let's say
you have like a gyro ticket, a GitHub issue, someone is writing a text and then posting like
a screenshot with the error message and then writing more text, this is like something we
specifically train for, like take GitHub issues where you have text and images interleaved and
you ask questions that address text and images that works well with Cohi Embed 4, that doesn't
work well with voyage multi-modal. That makes sense, great, I think that's all, I have another
presentation in five minutes, I think we can get some time back as well. Nils, thank you so much
for this, I learned a lot, I'm definitely gonna start asking you questions about the audio and
video embeddings at some point because it sounds like it might be more of an audio tokens situation
rather than like a transcription, so I'm pretty excited to see what that looks like and maybe I
can start doing like music search applications. Hopefully that's gone. Yeah, so for everyone else,
I think if Nils is okay, we'll share the slides afterwards, we'll share the video and the recordings
with some study notes and then we'll share more information about the program, the cohort and
what we have for next week. Great, thank you so much. Great to be here, thank you, bye-bye. Take care everyone.
