Okay, everyone, thanks for coming to this talk.
I'm super excited to tell you about Semantic Search over the Web.
And thank you, Jason, for inviting me to this.
As you've heard, he's a longtime friend and yeah, great guy.
And so yeah, I'm super excited to tell you about Semantic Search.
The best, in my opinion, the best presentations are stories.
So I'm just going to tell you a story about EXA and the way we think about search and
how it's evolved.
And I think through that story, we'll learn a lot of cool things.
And then we can have questions at the end.
Okay, so like any good story, let's go back in time to 30 years ago.
So the year is 1998.
And Google feels magical, right?
I don't know, probably a lot of people on this call weren't around then.
In 1998, when you typed in Australia to Google, you would actually get the homepage of Australia,
australia.com and the Wikipedia page for Australia and other really high quality resources.
And this to people was magical, because unlike previous search engines like Yahoo and Ask
Jeeves that could also handle keyword search, the big insight with Google was PageRank,
this algorithm that looked at the structure of the web and which websites linked to other
websites and they were able to figure out what are the highest quality sites.
And so this was the state of the art of search at the time.
Okay, let's now skip in our story to 2021.
Well now, in 2021, GB3 felt magical, it had recently come out, but Google felt ancient.
So I remember playing with GB3 in 2021, and I would type in like a sentence or a whole
paragraph and it would understand the subtleties of my language, of my paragraph, and then
it would respond exactly with a response that really understood what I was saying.
And it was amazing.
And then at the same time we had Google, where I would type in like a simple query like why
to start a cycling carton.
And it would not actually return me things that match exactly what I said, it would return
me like how to plant a cycling carton.
And that's just one example of how like Google wasn't actually understanding the subtleties
of my language at all.
And so the insight was like, wait, what if we could build a search engine that understood
language as well as GB3?
What if we got a search engine that understood me and understood the web and could return
exactly what I wanted?
I was super excited by this idea.
And we were like, okay, let's go build a company and do it.
And so we went to Y Combinator, we raised some money, and then of course we spent half
of our money on a GPU cluster as every startup should.
I'm just kidding.
But we've got like 80, 100s.
This is what they look like.
It's pretty cool.
They're still running today.
And the goal was like, hey, like Google's algorithm, it's great for certain types of
things, but not for complex queries.
What if we could train models, train AI models like LLMs into the search algorithm itself
to understand more complex queries?
And so it was like a neural approach to search, the search algorithm, as opposed to a keyword
approach, like with Google.
And so basically we did research.
We just went heads down for like a year and a half, just banging our head against the
wall of this problem, trying out all sorts of different architectures, like transformer-based
architectures towards search, reading tons of papers, making tons of data sets, failing
a bunch of times.
And eventually we actually like, like, you know, here's just some training curves.
This is I think the training curve that was one of our models that actually worked really
well.
We tried this new technique and it was like, it suddenly worked.
We were able to like take text and predict links based on that text using a fully embedding
space approach that no one had tried before.
And it was magical.
And we were super excited.
And we launched it in November 2022 on Twitter.
A lot of people felt like this was like the next generation of search.
Like, you know, for example, someone said like, this is the first time I felt there's been
a step change in search since using background in the late 90s.
And that was a beautiful comment.
Nat Friedman liked it.
OK, so that was November 2022.
And a couple of weeks later, this happened.
Pretty small tweet, you know, like today we launched TadgweeT, tried talking with it here.
I actually didn't at the time, I didn't think it was that big of a deal because I had been
playing with GPT-3 all the time.
But so the world, it was a huge deal because it was the world's first interaction with LLMs
on a large scale.
And this is a visual depiction of San Francisco at the time.
The world was, the whole like software world was going through this tectonic shift because
like the way we get information seemed to be radically changing.
And this was, is a visual depiction of the exiteam at the same time.
You know, we were building search and suddenly the entire information ecosystem was shifting
and going through tectonic shifts.
We were thinking a lot about like, OK, is search even needed?
Like, what is search in this new world where these AI systems can just like return you,
like can interact with you in all these crazy ways?
And we quickly realized that actually search is extremely needed in this new world with
LLMs because LLMs haven't memorized the whole web.
So if you ask an LLM like find me cool personal sites of engineers in San Francisco, the LLM
is just not like GPT-4, would not be able to return you results that match because it
doesn't memorize all the personal sites of engineers in San Francisco and organize it
in its head in that way.
There's a cool like information theoretical argument you can make here where just look
at the number of bytes in GPT-4 and the number of bytes on the web.
So like GPT-4, maybe we don't know exactly how many parameters, but probably like a couple
of trillion parameters.
Each one's maybe a couple of bytes.
It's less than 10 terabytes.
But the internet is trillions of documents and that's like millions of terabytes.
And that's just text.
And then when you go to images and video, obviously you go like crazy big.
So like the LLM simply cannot memorize the entire web.
It has to do if you want to ask it about the web, it can't it has to use retrieval.
OK, and one cool thing I tried here once was I looked at Wikipedia articles of people
ordered by popularity.
So like let's say Albert Einstein was near the top.
And of course, LLMs know the birthday of Albert Einstein.
They've memorized that because they've seen him many times.
However, if you go to like the 20,000th person, like some soccer player, it's not going to
know the birthday of that person.
And so you realize that like LLMs, they seem like they memorize a lot, but actually the
web is gigantic.
It's really, really big.
But when you combine an LLM with a search engine like EXA, you could actually do much
more powerful things like finding cool personal sites of engineers and SF.
And it actually, you know, it searches EXA gets personal sites and then it analyzes all
that content and gives you a personalized response.
Now, this like this was kind of, you know, in twenty twenty two days, this was kind of
innovative. Now everyone knows that search plus LLMs is super powerful.
It's a super hot topic. I think what people don't realize is what type of search LLMs
want. And this is like an interesting insight that still hasn't like proliferated.
And the inside is that like traditional search engines like Google and Bing, they weren't
built for LLMs. They were built for humans and LLMs are very different.
So like humans, this kind of looks like the way you would search on a search engine like
this GIF. Humans want to type simple keywords because they're lazy.
They don't they can't type full sentences and they want to find like one, maybe a couple
links because they're not going to go analyze a ton of information.
And so Google built a keyword based algorithm for humans.
It makes a lot of sense. Like Google built a search engine to handle their consumers
and they've done they did a great job.
The thing is, though, that like AIs are very different from humans.
And if you want to build a search engine for AIs, you should do things differently
because AIs, they don't use simple queries.
They're not lazy at all. They could instantly output a complex query, specifying
exactly what they want. And they don't just want one link.
They want like tons of knowledge. Give me all the knowledge because they can just gobble
it up instantly. And so to make an optimal search engine for AIs, you really
should use a different algorithm than Google.
It would kind of be actually insane if the same search engine that was optimal for
humans would also be optimal for this very different creature.
And so we actually realized that we were building us when we were building our new
search engine called Exa, it was actually pretty perfect for this new A.I.
world. Pretty lucky.
And let's just go through some examples like more specifically, like how why AIs are
different from humans in terms of what search they want.
So one like AIs want precise, controllable information.
So imagine. So, by the way, when I say AIs, I'm talking about like A.I.
products that you guys would all build.
Like if you're building some, imagine you're building like a tool for VCs to find and
analyze like company information because they want to go make deals.
Well, when the VC asked A.I.
like, hey, I want to I want to invest in something like huge, something that feels
like Bell Labs. Well, then their A.I.
tool will then go and search a search engine and it wants to find startups working on
something huge, feels like Bell Labs.
The problem is that like search engines like Google, they weren't they don't actually
give you exactly what you asked for.
They kind of give you the kind of things that humans click on.
Like this is a great result for humans.
Humans click on Reddit. They like people like reading Reddit.
It's cool UI and or Quora and like looking at the information inside that.
But actually, I'm just like, give me the information I asked for because I said I want
startups working on something huge. So give me a list of startups.
Give me 10, give me 100. Like it needs like a search engine that actually respects exactly
what it asked for. So like the A.I.
would search for startups working on something huge.
It would get a list of startups.
Then maybe it would look for like, hey, give me people, people's profiles that are
working on something similar because I want to talk to them.
OK, well, then the search engine should be able to do that, too.
So what you want is a search engine that could like repeatedly return exactly what the
A.I. asked for, as opposed to like a search engine that was like optimized for what
humans click on. Hopefully that makes sense.
So that's just one example of how A.I.s are different than humans.
Another thing, the way A.I.s and humans search differently is that A.I.s want to search
with lots of context. If you have some A.I. system inside your product and you ask it
some question, it has a ton of context on you and the whole conversation, like let's
say it's a chat, it has the whole chat as context.
Like you should be able to search with all that context.
The problem with current search engines is they can't like traditional search engines
like Google, because they can't handle queries that take in like multiple paragraphs.
They literally have keyword limits, they're keyword search engines.
And so they'd have to convert your complex context into keywords, which loses a ton of
information, search those and then return that.
That's very inefficient. That's not optimal.
That's not how you would design a search engine if you knew you were building it for A.I.s.
Whereas Excel can actually handle like long context queries natively.
And we'll talk about like a little bit how Excel works and why we can do this.
And so when you ask for like, you know, this is in this query, it's like some text from the
GP3 paper and like find me some similar papers, some find me papers with similar ideas.
And like Google would just return like the same paper multiple times.
That's not exactly that's not what you want.
That's not what you asked for. Whereas Excel would return actually like similar papers to GP3.
So A.I.s want to search with lots of context, bigger queries, long, long, giant queries.
Another way that A.I.s and humans are different is A.I.s want comprehensiveness.
Like humans, when they search again, they want like a few links because like humans are lazy and
they don't have like infinite capacity to analyze information.
But an A.I. does. We now have these systems like test on compute systems like O3, right, that could
like just like just gobble up tons of information.
So you need a search engine that exposes that to the A.I.
So like, for example, if you're again, if you're the VC and you say, hey, give me every startup
funded by YC working on A.I. and and also give me all the information about them like batch and
status, like you need a surgeon that can handle that.
Like like traditional surgeons were not built for the system.
And to build something that could actually give you like thousands of results, you need to to design
it differently. And X actually can do this.
Excel can do this. So those are a few of the ways A.I.s are different.
I think when you think about it more, you'll realize that A.I.s are very different and it's just a
completely different paradigm. And so if you want to build a search engine for A.I.s, you should
build it differently. I think more broadly, one interesting way I've been thinking about
just like search as a whole is that the space of possible search queries is very broad.
And like traditional search engines like Google have trained us to only think about this, like
if you see on the top left, it's like keyword bubble of the space is the gray zone, like all
the possible queries and the blue is like things that the tools can handle right now.
And so like stripe pricing over here on the top left, that's like a Google has trained us to search
like that. Right. But there's actually like many different types of queries that people might want
to make that go way beyond what Google can handle. And I think Chachabie T. was very
showed the world this because like their Chachabie T. like queries are very, very different from
Google. You might like paste your entire code error and say like, hey, find me places on the
web where people have had this problem and how they solved it. Like that's a query that's very
different. And if sometimes I forget and I paste that into Google search and I like just can't
handle it because it's not it wasn't built to handle like these like long paragraph queries.
And so like those are like a Chachabie T. like queries where it's like explain this to me or
any sort of way you interact with Chachabie T. But then there are also all sorts of other
queries that like Chachabie T. can handle. So like semantic queries on the left side,
it's like people in SF who know assembly language. That's like a semantic query that neither Google
or Chachabie T. can handle. And actually X is quite good at those. And then there are lots of
more queries. So there's like super complex queries I've labeled on the bottom right. There's like
find me every article that argues X and not Y from an author like Z. And you can fill in the blanks.
But you never even think to search this, right? Because you know that search tools can't handle
that. So like when you think search, you never think of this. But actually, if search tools could
handle that, you would search these all the time because you would have like you'd be able to
analyze the web like any way you want. And it would be magical. And then just more broadly,
like at the bottom left, there's like just the queries and no one has even thought up to try it.
So I'm very confident that there are many, many types of queries that go beyond the ones listed
here that we haven't even thought of because our tools can't handle it. And as we build the tools,
we think of new queries similar to how like when as we as LLMs get better, you think of new ways
to interact with LLMs. I think the space of possible search queries is very broad. I think
that's a really important takeaway from this call for this talk. Okay. And so just the way
we think about Exa in this space, because there's a lot of like information, there's a lot of noise
about like the search right now. It's a very hot topic. And it's like, I think it's helpful to
have this like just like picture in your mind of like, where Exa stands. There's like the search
infrastructure companies that actually like Google, Bing, and Exa that actually crawl the web
and index it and process it so that they could expose, so that you could like get information
from those indexes. And then there are the AI applications that build on top. So like Gemini
is actually an AI app built on top of Google. It's like an LLM built on top of Google results.
And like, so Gemini will repeatedly call Google. And similarly, like search GBT will repeatedly
call Bing and like other AI startups will repeatedly call these search engines. So like Exa
is trying to be the search infrastructure. And we want to be able to handle all these possible
queries. That's our goal. You know, we're not all the way there yet. But we're doing we can
handle a lot of these. Cool. And just like, just just more clearly how Exa fits in, you would have
like some AI app on the left side. Whenever your AI application needs some information from the web,
it should form a query, send that to Exa, Exa is connected to the web, Exa sends back information
that's most relevant to that query. And then you go use that information in some downstream
processing. And our goal with Exa is like expose the best possible API, like, allow your AI to
search whatever it needs, like whatever whatever toggles or filters it needs to get the information
it wants. Okay. Okay. And so now hopefully that you understand the space and our goals.
I'll talk a little bit about like how Exa works on a high level, and then we'll dive deeper into one
of these components. So yeah, I mean, when you're building a web search engine, and not for the
faint of heart, it's pretty hard. Everything is massive scale. But here are the basic components,
right? So like first, you got to gather your URLs to crawl. Then the web is massive, it's trillions
of URLs. At least right now, Exa is not going to get all trillions. But you get some large subset
of those URLs to crawl. Then you have this like distributed crawling system to go crawl them.
And there are like different formats and stuff like PDFs and stuff like that, that you need like,
you know, complex crawlers to handle. And then you need to then just simply store it. And like,
even just thinking about the way we store things is super important. Because if you store it
incorrectly, it's gonna be really annoying to do like all sorts of batch jobs over petabytes of data.
So we use S3. And we thought a lot about our storage format. And then we okay, so now you have
you gather all these documents, that's the easy part. Now you have to process those documents,
pre process them into a format such that you could retrieve over them later, right? So in like
the Google case, or let's call it the 1998 Google case, they would like pre process the web into
like a page rank score, and like a list of keywords that are contained inside that document. That's a
pre processing step. And then that allows you for you to do fast retrieval at search time. Exa's
approach is different, we use embeddings. So we'll take your documents in the web and embed them. And
then so that's the pre processing is converting them into embeddings and various other formats.
Okay, then once you have this, like you pre process all the documents into some format,
you have to put them inside a database to ingest into a so in our case, we ingest into a custom
neural database that we built. Okay, now you have this database, and now you have, of course,
have to serve it to users. And it's a massive database, and you can have very high volume
users. So that's pretty complex to serve that too. And like clouds are not they don't not very easy
to use GPUs on sometimes. So it's kind of complex, but and then okay, so that's the whole system.
And then you serve that to your users. So that's a general like, broad overview of Exa system.
Each component here is quite complex. And so I want to dive into one of them. This like rust base
vector database. So over here, I guess you can't see my mouse, but I'm hovering over that one.
Cool. So diving deep into this database. Okay, so what is the goal here? So Exa processes these
documents. And we use an embedding space algorithm. So we take each document, and run it through an
embeddings model that we've trained. And it outputs an embedding and embedding vector, the same thing
there. It's a list of floats that capture the meaning of that document. And there's a lot of
secret sauce that goes into an embedding model that's really good at like precise
pre processing of documents such that they can be retrieved well. But I'm more interested here and
after that, where we get, we actually get the list of floats from the from each document. So we have
billions of documents, and we have billions of lists of these embeddings. And now when a query
comes in, you have to embed the query and compare it to each of these embeddings of each document
embeddings, you have billions of embedding comparisons. And that's actually a very important
and that's extremely slow. It's also really expensive to run. So we have this problem of like,
it would be ridiculously expensive and ridiculously slow if we just did a naive like cosine
similarity between the query embedding and the document embeddings. So how do we make this faster
and cheaper? Okay, so we've, so and also there are like, vector databases to build this kind of stuff,
but we decided to build our own, because well, one, like any sort of performance gain we make,
would actually save us a ton of money. So it made sense for us. And we were willing to like build
versus buy. But also because we don't just want to do embedding search, we want to go beyond just
simple embedding search and we already have. And so it was the right call because now like,
because we control our own vector database, we could build on it in all sorts of crazy ways.
So okay, but to be here, if we're talking specifically about the embedding search,
so there are a few techniques that make this embedding search faster and cheaper. So here are
four I've listed, the four major ones. So the first one is we use this training paradigm called
Matrioshka, which when we train our embedding model, what we do is we train our embedding model to
output an embedding, but also the first half of that embedding should be a good representation
of the whole embedding. Meaning if for some reason we cut our embedding in half, we just took the
first half, you know, that would be a pretty good approximation of the whole embedding. And then
actually, again, if we cut that half into a quarter, that quarter would also be a good
approximation of the whole embedding and so on. So like, we would have what we get is like an
embedding that inside it contains different embedding sizes that each are a good representation of the
whole embedding, kind of like a Matrioshka doll, that's where the name came from. And what this
is helpful for, because we don't actually have to serve the full embedding, which would be too slow,
we would use the lower dimensions, maybe like the 128 dimension vector instead of the 1024 dimension
vector. And we'd serve that and it would be an approximation of the full vector. All these methods,
by the way, they're approximations because you could literally calculate the amount of
operations you'd have to do to do a full embedding search and it's just not tractable. So you have
to do all sorts of clever approximations. And you do that because you're anyway, because like the
vector space is not actually like perfectly random. Okay, so Matrioshka is one method where you could
compress the vectors. There are other compression methods, but Matrioshka is just, we found really
good. Another technique beyond Matrioshka is like, let's say once you have these compressed
embeddings, now what you could do is you could cluster them. And you can see here on the top
right, there are like different clusters of embeddings. One might be like, it's actually
cool. We could like look at the web and we've like clustered the web and looked at it visually. And
you see like all the archive papers are on the top left and like all the blog posts on the bottom and
the math blog posts are like within that cluster. And it's like, you can actually like kind of like
project the web onto a 2D space into clusters. And the clusters are actually multi-dimensional,
you know, many hundreds of dimensions, but you could, yeah, you could like cluster these
embedding vectors. And then when you do a search, you can only search over the clusters that are
closest to your query. And so what you're doing is you have like a thousand clusters. Let's say you
only search over the top three clusters. You just save 300 X in terms of speed. So that's ridiculous
speed up. But again, it's approximation, but it's pretty good. Another one we do is, yeah, even still
using 128 dimensions or whatever it is, it's too much, it's too big and it's too slow. So you can
at the bottom left, you see we convert it into Booleans. So instead of having floats, we just
convert our floats into Booleans. And so now it's like a very approximate, it's shorter and Boolean.
So it's super approximate, but it's extremely fast. But even then it's too slow because like
when you're doing over billions of documents, billions of binary compressed embeddings using
clustering, it's still too slow. And then we, so a lot of the advances or the speed ups we got were
from like going into the actually assembly and like the SIMD operations on the like low level
stuff on the CPU to like really optimize it to just get all the juice out of the system that we
could. We have a blog post on this if you want to see more detail. But I think, so that was just
like a, I wanted to highlight that component of the system because that's just one component
of our whole system to build this, to make it work. And every component is like pretty crazy
and complex like that because when you're doing things on massive scale, you just have to deal
with all these questions. Okay. Let's see. Okay. So I thought I would then share just a quick
example of, so we have this like exosystem, like maybe just a quick how you could use it in your,
oh no, my API, how you could use it in your system. Okay. Let's go to,
I thought it'd be cool to,
by the way, like, so we have a dashboard and we have
like different routes you could use to search. So there's all sorts of different routes.
So there's search. Actually, let's just go to the homepage and we have this cool nifty thing where
you can actually just talk to your LLM about how to use EXA. So I would say like build me an app
to do similarity search. That'll just be helpful for it. So actually like the LLM just, it has all
the, it uses rag, like local rag. It has all the documentation in its context window and it will
just tell you how to use the X API. And so you guys could just use this to find information,
like find similar results or search in various ways. I guess I just want to highlight here,
like this is the place where you could do searches. I'll just run the search.
So you get a list of results, like all the data you want. I think what's interesting is the
philosophy here is we want to give users like full ability to toggle the search engine however
they want and create their own really like customized search engine. So for example,
you could choose obviously a number of results, but like different date ranges and domain filters
and even things like categories, like maybe you only want to search over companies or research
papers or news articles or maybe you don't want news articles and stuff like that. And so we want
the philosophy here is we want to give users full control, give the AI system full control to get
information they want. And it's a very different philosophy from like Google, which is like, hey,
all consumers are kind of similar. We kind of like want to like abstract away all the complexity,
but I think because we're serving like businesses and products, we want to like actually let you
toggle it. Anyway, I won't go too far deep into this, but like a recent endpoint we've
released recently was this like answer endpoint, which is pretty cool. Like instead of, you know,
often like AI applications, they don't just want the results themselves. They just want like a
quick answer. So you could do that and you can get like a streamed answer. Pretty cool. Okay,
let's go back to the presentation.
Okay, so that's how we expose our search to our users. Okay, so getting closer to the end now,
it's helpful to think about where we're going. So like the goal of EXA really is perfect search.
And what that means is we want to be able to handle everything, like every possible query.
And I think when you start looking at actual examples, it becomes a lot clearer how cool this
is. So I wrote a blog post recently where explaining like, what does perfect search mean?
And so just, I thought it'd be helpful to go through some categories here. So like,
what does perfect search for people mean? Well, it would mean you could do things like, hey,
I'm creating a discord of best prompting practices. Like find me anyone who's ever thought
deeply about this on the web. Like, can you do that right now on search engines? Like, no,
you can't. But if you could, then you would be able to create communities on the fly,
and it would bring the world together in beautiful ways. Or like, you know,
and it would bring the world together in beautiful ways. Or like, who in Berlin has written about new
search algorithms? So I'm going to Berlin. It's like, Jason would love this, like, right? Like,
Jason would do a meetup with people. Okay, that's like perfect search for people. Or like, what about,
oh, I had perfect multimodal search twice. But what perfect multimodal search mean? Okay, well,
it means like, if I want to find images of shirts without stripes that have cool mix of colors,
like a Jackson Pollock, I should be able to do that. But actually, with like traditional search
engines like Google, if you search like shirts without stripes, images of shirts without stripes,
you'll actually get shirts with stripes, which is crazy. You can try this out on Google, shirts
without stripes, okay, shirts with stripes. And the reason is because it's doing keyword based
search. It's not doing like a semantic based understanding. And so yeah, there are other
things you could do like, you know, perfectly curated music. I would love this, like, find me
Hans Zimmer like music with a fast beat similar to the song Supermarine, which is a great song.
Like, you can't do that right now. So there are all sorts of searches that you could, that you
would be able to do if you had a perfect search engine. Or you could do like crazy analyses,
like at the bottom right, like, search like analyses of X of like, you know, some topic by
liberal authors, and then analyses of that topic by conservative authors, and then analyses of
that topic by conservative authors who used to be liberal, like, you'd be able to like,
control the information you find in all these powerful ways. And I think people don't realize
how much like, more like the world's knowledge would actually be in your head, like at your
fingertips. It's still abstract, I think, like, but hopefully these examples help you see.
I think one really interesting insight here, that is definitely true, is that perfect search
requires test time compute. So like, all these queries, I just mentioned these complex queries,
there's no way they could return in half a second, like traditional search engines were used to,
because they're just too complex, they require more compute. And very similar to how LLMs
require, like, like for for simple things, you can use GB 40. But for complex things,
you need 03, because it just like it fundamentally requires, is a hard, it's like fundamentally
hard, fundamentally hard search. And so like, X is really thinking a lot about like, test time
compute search. So what does test on compute for search mean? Well, it means your search could
sometimes take half a second, but sometimes it could take a minute or 10 minutes or an hour,
or a day for super complex things. And of course, we want to optimize that as much as possible. But
but it's just fundamentally a hard problem. So and we have this new product called websites
that tries to address exactly this. So like, for example, if you want, find me research papers
about cell regeneration technology, co written by an MD and a technologist, like that's a hard
query, we could actually handle it pretty well. But it'll take some time to get all the results.
So if you want 20 results, it'll take, you know, a minute, if you want 1000 results, or all the
results, it might take hours. But you know, for certain queries, you're willing to wait that long.
So this is a very different paradigm for thinking about search, this test on compute search, and it
is the way to handle to get the perfect search. Okay, and then I'm just like, you know, now in our
story, we started in 1998, maybe 30 years later, is search solved? Is this gray zone completely
filled with like some tool that can handle it? I don't know if 2028 is the I would say like,
2028 search will be amazing, like magical. And we'll look back on 2025. I'll be like, oh,
my god, like they didn't know anything about the world. I still think that there will be many,
many different things to go beyond. After 2020, there'll be many different types of searches that
will still not be possible. Because search is a very broad concept. It's not even just web search,
it's search over any information that might involve like satellite data, and like data that's
not on the public web. And so I think this is a beautiful mission that will last a long time.
And similar to like LMS and intelligence, it's like, no matter how good your LMS is,
you can always do better. I think similarly, no matter how good your search is, you can always
do better. Okay, and that is the presentation. I hope that was interesting. Oh, great. I think
I learned a lot more about sort of the mindset that you guys have when tackling, tackling search.
I definitely need to do some some website work now. I can do some marketing, find some hires on people.
A lot of fun. I guess I would love to ask one question particular on building these systems.
I think, you know, I think probably now I've spoken to Glean and you guys, and I feel like
you guys are the, you two have done the most work in building these sort of horizontal search systems.
I think there's a lot of people here who are building like very much like vertical
search systems. Maybe it's over vertical medical records, maybe it's over, you know,
legal documents, etc. How do you think they should prioritize their development? You know,
it might not be they should fine tune their own embedding models. It might not be they should
build their own battery database. But where do you think the low hang fruit is in terms of building
these search systems? I see. So if you want to build like a like a system over like, like all
like 100, like 200 million research papers, what's the right way to go about it? I think the search
problem becomes easier, of course, like the small the fewer options you have, and you don't have to
use fancy techniques. Like when you're trying to do search over tens of billions of websites,
100, billions of websites, it's a very different problem. It's very different beast than searching
over 200 million research papers. So I mean, the hybrid approaches like combining keyword methods
and embeddings based methods are pretty good for most things. I think it depends you have to think
about your query distribution, like are your queries like simple ones, like if you're doing
research paper search, it's like gbd3 paper, or is it complex ones? Like, what's like a paper such
that people have this experiment setup that feels like this other setup? Like, if you're doing more
complex ones, you're going to need to potentially train your own models. I think for a lot of use
cases, it's like a simple keyword plus embeddings based system could work pretty well.
And then I guess another question was like, how about things like query expansion or, you know,
like, what we're like, if we had like, you know, 36 months to build something, like what would be
the kinds of experiments you would be running or pushing these teams to run? I see. Yeah, I mean,
you could get pretty far these days with like query expansion, meaning like you take your query,
and then you like expand it into like hundreds of words, and then search a keyword base with all
those words, and then get the top results and re rank. Like that's another technique that would
work well. I think it depends on I mean, yeah, that works quite well. Again, like that will not be as
good as like these like semantic type queries, but it should work pretty well for for a lot of things.
Cool. Let's jump into a couple of the uploaded questions, and then we can do some live questions
in the end. I think a lot of people are really curious, like, how do you see yourself different
from companies like perplexity, or even just like the generic chat, GBT plus search?
Yeah, well, I think there aren't too many. Again, it comes back to this, like this slide,
which like we think of ourselves as search infrastructure, there aren't too many companies
that are actually like crawling the web and providing like a search over it. I think the word
search has been used in many different ways, like search GBT uses search infrastructure under the
hood. So like, X can power all the systems, right? Like we want to, we want to be search
infrastructure that powers all these applications. And so that's kind of like where we stand. I think
our big insight is where we like, as I've said in the talk, like, we believe that
current search engines aren't good enough. Like a lot of people are okay, like wrapping, well,
they used to like, use Bing API, but that's being dedicated. But like, a lot of people are okay with
like the Bing API. But actually, like, a lot of people aren't because like, because again, like,
AI applications are very different from humans. And so like, we believe that there are tons of
companies and we started to see this, that like tons of companies that need like search that goes
beyond things like the Bing API. So we just want to be like an API that is just the most powerful
one, the most customizable one and power all these applications that you guys mentioned.
Is there going to be like a X deep research tool coming out soon? I realized that,
you know, when I try open AI's deep research, it might cite like 70 documents. And when I use
Claude's deep research, it cites like 1000 documents, which I was actually pretty impressed
with. But I think when you shared a little bit more about your, you know, search for humans is
very much like mean reciprocal rank optimized, whereas I search for AI's actually, you know,
I want to be able to use all 1000 documents. Like, where do you think exit position is relative
to things like deep research? Yes, I would say I would stay tuned for that. I think we kind of,
we've really been focused in the past on like the search infrastructure part and like expected
others or hope that others would build on top of that. I think what we found is like,
we could actually build these applications to like deep research on top of our search.
And so yeah, I would say to a lot of cool releases coming in the next few days and few weeks.
Exciting. I'm excited to start paying for one more deep research that's gonna cost me $200 a month.
Yeah. Does exit have any plans on doing things like audio, visual and video,
like audio and visual models? I thought you mentioned things like playing songs or whatnot.
I think that's pretty, pretty. Yeah, for sure. I mean, again, like our goals are we want to be
perfect search over the web and beyond. And so like, all that is part of our mission, I think,
as a startup with limited resources, we have to be smart and clever. And, and like, you know,
we have to be ready for when we have enough resources, we could go do images and videos
because there are a lot like, like the storage costs would go insane. Like our audio costs are
already insane. And so we will definitely do it. I would say not this quarter, but you know,
at some point soon. This is a funny question. How does exit figure out things behind paywalls?
We don't we only we search over things that are not by people.
Oh, okay. So I guess there's like maybe the solution is like doing like,
partnerships like I does, but that's a different set of business problems.
Oh, this is an interesting question. As content creators, how can we make sure that our content
gets indexed in exit? Is there like such a thing as like SEO in the this new world? Is it just
prompting myself to say like, you know, put this number one? I think, yeah, yeah, no, it's a good
question. We don't have like a formal system for that yet. But I think like there will be like SEO
for AI systems. I think it's a fascinating space because like, what is SEO? Like, well, often people
think of SEO in negative context. It's like, like, you know, one thing that's beautiful about X is
like we could actually because we train our model. So we've optimized our system to try to return
high quality information. So we actually typically avoid SEO. So in a way that Google doesn't. And,
but we're not big enough yet where people are trying to like super optimize for our system.
But let's say once we get really big, people are going to be like, oh, how can I hack X? I think
it's like a lot harder, I believe, to, to SEO hack X, because it's an embedding this base neural
search algorithm, as opposed to like hacking like a keyword based algorithm like Google. So hopefully
we're more immune to SEO. I think also just like LMS are smart enough to know what is SEO and what's
not. And so you can just like classify things as SEO or SEO or not SEO and just like remove those.
I think Google has like weird incentives where they actually like don't want to remove things
because they make money more money from it. But like we're very much incentivized just to give
you the highest quality information. Anyway, it's a little different from your question of like, how
do you add stuff? We don't have a system yet, but we will. Yeah, because I imagine right now, you know,
SEO really is about getting the click, but there's no click happening in the exit loop. It's like,
maybe whether or not data is being cited, whether you have to like own the model that does the
siting. That's right. I think the whole ecosystem is like shifting and it's like, like that's
SpongeBob clip and it's, it's not clear how things will turn out. That's what's settled. But I think
all these things are on the table. Makes sense. Makes sense. Now there's a person asked,
why not train an embedding model to begin with rather than using the Marioshka embeddings?
Why not train? Oh, embedding model to compressed? Yeah, you could do that. It's a bit of work. Just
like the, it's annoying. Like you don't know what compressed, what size you will use in your vector
database. And so if you train a model for one dimension size, and you'll have to like retrain
it to be a different size, you could do that though. Also a nice property is if you have,
let's say you have, so one thing we do is we search over the compressed vector. And then,
so then we get like some candidates and then we re-rank using the full vector. Because you get like
imagine a billion things to a hundred using compressed method. And then you take your hundred
and look at the true embedding size, full embedding, and then re-rank to like get the top 10.
If you did that with the methods versus proposing, you would have to have two different models to
output two different embeddings. That would be two X inference costs. So it's like, it also saves
you inference costs because you only have to pass the document through once. Got it. Got it. Oh,
interesting. So you just use the larger embedding to re-rank. Do you have separate re-ranking
models? Like for example, Coheer has the embedding model, but then they also have a cross encoder
that does re-ranking. Here is, yes, we have two layers. Yeah. Yeah. We have multiple layers.
Yeah. So like I, every, the optimal system, and this is I think fundamental to search is like you,
you keep doing like lower, like you keep doing different techniques as you filter from a trillion
things to a billion, to a million, to a thousand, to a hundred. You should just like use different
techniques at each layer. And so it's optimal to use like a super approximate thing to get from a
trillion to billion, then a less approximate method to get from a billion to a million and so
forth. So the binary embedding, sorry, the compressed embedding, and machro-scan embedding
to the full embedding, that's only one part of that pipeline. Got it. Okay. Yeah. I guess, you
know, top 50 over a trillion things might not get you a very good recall. Yes, exactly. Cool.
As I go over some of these questions, feel free to like use the Zoom's like hand raise mechanic
if you want to ask a live question. I think we've got like 15 minutes left. Let me see. Oh, how much
synthetic data generation do you do for things like creating complex search queries? I think
this is critical. Like the data we train on is obviously, like everyone knows that it's like
super important. Synthetic data is something we have done recently and have really good results.
So it's pretty important. Yeah. Especially for like the out of like super out of distribution.
It's out of distribution because no one searches that way. It's like, I see you're kind of breaking
out of the blue bubble within this like, you know, huge universe. Like all the LMS have discovered,
a lot of the techniques that the LMS companies like opening I have discovered apply really well
to search to. We have similar methods. And so like this whole like 03 teaching itself by trying out
lots of programs, like asking itself questions and then solving them and then teaching based on
that. Like we use similar techniques. We're just getting started. But I'm pretty excited.
Yeah. I'm excited to see the blog posts. I feel like, yeah, you're definitely getting probably
weirder queries out of some of the other search companies. That's right. Like, you know, most of
my perplexity searches are like recipes or like how to do instructions. And for you guys, it's like,
I want every YC batch company that's raised less than 10 million who's looking for a head of AI.
That's right. Exactly. Do you handle things like authority and recency within the model? Do you
also have I guess another way to ask this is do you have re-rankers that use additional metadata,
right? Like authority, relevancy, recency. Yes, for efficiency purposes, better to bake that
into the embeddings model because like, okay, one way to think about is like, if you're let's say
your embedding model didn't have any notion of authority, then when you were filtered from a
trillion to a hundred, none of them are authoritative. So even if your re-ranker is
the best authority re-ranker ever, it's not going to do anything. So you got to bake it into each
stage as much as possible. I see. But authority is a hard problem. It's also, I think what's harder
about this is the subjective problem. What is authority? And like, I think solving the
philosophical problem might be even harder than the technical problem, which is crazy.
Yeah. Yeah. I guess, I guess when I think about it, I mostly think about it in terms of like
searching internal documents. Well, Glean's example is, you know, the wifi password is
a seven-year-old document, but it's the most authoritative thing ever because it's being
at referenced a bunch. But I guess on the internet, yeah, you're right. There is like a philosophical
like, oh yeah. My solution to the philosophical problem is give the user the ability to specify
their solutions to the philosophical problem. Like you could have like a system prompt that's
like, hey, this is what I consider authoritative and this is what I don't. And then so you just
like give full control to the user. You need a search engine that's smart enough to handle that.
You can't Google something like, hey, like I think like WebMD is not authoritative and I think this
other thing is authoritative and then search your, like you can't do that, right? But you should.
And so like I dream of a world where everyone has their own customizable search engine.
It's also, I think, yeah. And it really does get to philosophy of like almost like freedom. It's
like, I really like people at the company really think of like, if you give full control to the
user to specify what they want, you are freeing them from the whatever, like whatever like ideology
that your search engine, like previous search engines had. Right. So it's pretty big deal.
I love this. The alignment problem, but in search, I guess. I think, I think the alignment problem
in search is a huge thing. And like people don't think about it. It's actually, it's a nice way of
putting it. I do have a cool question. I can't find the, and raise on the phone. Sorry. So what
is a document for you? Like you mentioned that you're embedding and I guess embeddings are six,
but taxes varying the left. So do you embed war and peace or is there like a limit? Like
is there any chunking involved? There is a limit. Chunking is something that's on our mind, but it's
not like you could do a lot. You can do pretty well without chunking, but chunking is definitely
important. Oh, interesting. Cause I guess you're not working with like large PDFs. It's like a
website sort of has a very natural. That makes sense. That makes sense. Yeah. It's like, I think,
I think many people now are just like embedding at each PDF page under the assumption that humans
have done a good job organizing pages to be sort of relevant rather than trying to like turn it to
markdown first and then chunking the markdown. Right. That's funny. You can imagine adversarial
web where like the first part of the document is very different from the last part. And then like
it would be really hard to search everything. Yeah. The structure of the way. I mean, a lot of these
things are easier because the structure of the web is, was organized by humans who are pretty
reasonable. Yeah. Lots of incentives in the past. Great. With 10 minutes left, I, this is the
question I ask everybody, which is like, what is a question you wish you, like the audience asked
you? Like, what is something you think has been really important that we haven't really caught up
on or, or noticed? This is, this is the test time compute running right now. It's just doing, it's
just a monkey clapping. Oh, actually let me ask you a smaller question. Would you ever do
Excel for internal data? We're starting with the search over public data. I think it's hard to say
how the world will change. You're going to enter the glean market, but I think there's a huge
market for just like really good search over the public web. Can't your question. Oh, maybe like,
why hasn't anyone done this before? I mean, like that, like, yeah. What's going on here? Like,
like why we're like a small starter. Like, why are we trying to, like, we're talking about like
reinventing search and like, why is no one else doing it? I think like what I've realized,
it's pretty obvious now, but like, like incentives for like the financial incentives for a company,
like why hasn't, well, basically why hasn't Google doing this? And I think financial incentives are
ridiculously important and like Google just doesn't make more money, like significant more money by
like, like pre-processing their gigantic index in all the ways that Excel wants to. They are making
$200 billion a year from their current approach. And it's just really hard to shift a company to
like do a totally different paradigm. And I think this is like a fascinating property of companies.
I'm noticing as even as we get bigger, it's hard to shift the company in all sorts of ways. And
like if you're a gigantic company with like $2 billion in revenue for a certain method, it's like,
it's really hard to even care about smaller markets, but those smaller markets become,
I mean, it's basically innovators, innovators dilemma. But I do think the search space is
big enough where like there are lots of winners. And I, again, like that, that San Francisco going
through an earthquake thing is the right vibe where it's like, I think the, and we're seeing
this in the news, like the entire search space is shifting. It's unclear how the dust will settle.
There's obviously everywhere. Yeah. And it's, it looks like, you know,
search APIs are literally just getting shut down now. I know, like I suppose there's some people
from deep research on the Google side. They're like, yeah, we need different search APIs.
And I'm now realizing it is because, you know, they're kind of optimizing for like reciprocal
rank versus whatever this new thing is, which is like, I actually want a thousand results,
or I want to do deep research with 10,000 web articles. Right. And the space of possible
searches, like, like we show with that circle is so broad that it's, it's actually really hard
for one company to like be the perfect at everything. So it's just, it's like bifurcating
in all these ways. It's like splintering and there's just like, it's a big market for like
knowledge. I mean, again, this is a knowledge, knowledge market, right? Big. Jan?
Yeah. You, you talked about Google not being interested in, in setting something up like this.
So what is your business model? How, how, how is your company going to survive, you know,
the fierce competition that exists? Yeah. So the big difference is we don't make more money from
ads. We sell a usage base like per query. So per thousand queries, you'll pay some amount of dollars.
And so our, our finance, our incentive is to make people like the search as much as possible,
like get the highest quality information so that they use it more. Whereas Google's incentive is
like, you know, making them click on ads like a little bit, right. Like they also need to keep
the search high quality enough that people don't like still use it. So they're not. So,
but like they're the, the optimization functions are different. And when you have these AI systems
that you can optimize towards some objective, the objective really matters. Does that answer
your question? Are you afraid that some of those big companies will buy you? Well, I guess that
would be up to me to decide, but I, I want to see this problem through. I've worked in this
problem for four years. Like I want to solve, I want to solve this. I, at this point, it's like
my mission in life. So I think because we go, because we have these very pristine incentives,
like we are very, our, our mission is very aligned with our financial incentives. So it's a very
beautiful thing. And so I don't want to, yeah, I don't, I don't want to. Search worth paying for.
Right. I think that's the thing I would love to be able to say, like, yeah, I want to spend like
a thousand dollars on like LLM compute and $80 on like search compute to do like a report that is
going to help me make a decision about what I buy or how I invest.
Let's do the last question. Then we'll let you go. Well, Shurayan. Hey, I just want to do,
trying to understand more and more about IR. I came across, how would you distinguish yourself
from Superlinked actually? From what is that? Superlinked. There's Daniels,
Snowanova's, he worked in Google. Oh yeah. I think they're doing a talk sometime later in the month,
but they do a lot of like encoders. Yeah, they have an encoder. They do boosting, filtering,
re-ranking, all of that stuff. And so take a look. I mean, you had a talk on Maven on, on evals
recently. So it looked kind of similar to what EXA was doing. So we're just very interested in
understanding what. Yeah, I'll definitely check it out. While you are here, I want to know anything
you can point us to a blog post or anything about IR, latest in IR. I mean, we have some posts on
our system on exa.ai slash blog. We'll share a link at the end of like to all the attendees and
we'll include like, we'll LinkedIn, Twitter, and some blog posts as well. Thank you. Thank you so
much. Loved it. Thank you. Yeah. Then how can we stay in touch with EXA? Yeah, I will share a bunch
of links afterwards on what EXA is up to. Now I feel like I just go sort of, oh, I guess one
difference I'll call for Superlinked is I think Superlinked is more close, is closer to a database.
Right. The auto database, the auto database. That's right. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I think the question is if they can store a trillion records. Yeah. Things break down
every time you do tax. Yeah. I'm excited. I'm excited to hear what kind of more GPS you started
dropping millions of dollars on. Great. Well, thank you so much. I learned a lot about search.
I'm actually really curious to read some of these blog posts now. Maybe I'll just, I'll just email
you offline and just ask for some recommended readings and then we can share that with the
team. As always. Yeah. Well, thank you so much. Yeah. Thanks everyone. That was so fun. For
attending. Thank you. Loved it. Follow up in the emails. Take care, everyone.
