Hi, everyone.
Thank you so much for showing up.
I'm Kelly.
I work on research.chroma.
We're an open source vector database company building retrieval for AI.
And a while ago, we published some work on generative benchmarking, which is essentially
a way to build custom eval sets from your own data.
And yeah, I guess I'll just get right into it then.
So I'm sure a lot of people coming into this are at least familiar with what evals are
and why they're important.
You need evals if you want to systematically debug your AI systems.
And for retrieval specifically, it might look something like this, where you have this task
where you're given a corpus of documents, you have a set of queries, and you also have
query document pairs.
So you would take an embedding model, you would embed that corpus of documents, and
then for each query, you'd embed that, retrieve the top k documents.
If you retrieve a matching document and a top k results, then that means you have a
success.
So that's how you get metrics such as recall, OK.
And a very popular benchmark for this in retrieval is MTEP.
It's also referred to as the Massive Text Embedding benchmark, but you've probably seen this come
up a lot.
If you see the release of any new embedding model, it's probably in the first few lines
of the release.
For example, this was Gemini's recent embedding model release, where they talk about how they
achieve top rank on MTEP multilingual.
And this was Suarajuna's release.
They said they outperformed OpenAI and Coherent on MTEP.
So MTEP is very popular and is widely used because it gives people a very easy and convenient
way to compare embedding performance through a unified metric.
But when you think about evaluations, you really have to think about what kind of data
you're working with and really think about what you're actually measuring as well and
whether that's actually useful.
So when you think about those questions, there are some limitations that come up with MTEP.
The first one being that the data itself is pretty generic.
So for example, one of the data sets is a Wikipedia data set.
So you might have a question document pairing like this.
And the entire data set itself is pretty general.
And even if you're working with domain specific MTEP data sets, like there is legal domain
data sets, it might contain a corpus of legal documents.
But it still doesn't get as specific as the kind of data that you're probably working
with in your retrieval application.
The second point is that the data is artificially clean.
By this, we mean that the query document pairs are very polished.
So you have this question here and the matching document is essentially like a perfect response
to that question.
But in the real world, you're often going to have queries where the user queries are
a lot more ambiguous and it's not going to fully match the document.
The questions are also likely to come up as more of like statements rather than complete
questions like this.
And lastly, there's also a risk of data contamination.
So because a lot of these data sets, they're all like public data sets, there's a pretty
good chance that the embedding models you're evaluating have seen this data before.
So it becomes pretty hard to differentiate whether you're testing for true retrieval
or if the models just memorize that benchmark before.
So I guess to summarize all of this about MTEP, if you have really good performance
on a public benchmark for a given embedding model, that doesn't necessarily guarantee
that you'll also get that good performance for your specific production pipeline.
So that's why we started working on generative benchmarking.
As I mentioned before, it's a way to generate a custom eval set, which basically consists
of a set of queries.
And because we generated queries from those documents, we end up with query document matches
all generated from your data.
So it addresses the limitations that I talked about previously, because this eval set is
generated from your data, it's as specific as you can get.
The queries themselves are also more realistic, we generate them in a way that they're maybe
like more ambiguous to reflect real user queries that you might see in production.
And lastly, if you're working with your own private data, you also know that the data
hasn't been seen by these embedding models before.
So you know you're actually testing for retrieval and not memorization.
So generative benchmarking is pretty useful if you're building a retrieval application,
because it can help you select the best embedding model to use for your data.
And it can also help you iterate on components of your retrieval pipeline as well.
For example, you can experiment with adding a re-ranking step, you can experiment with
chunk rewriting as well.
Because you can generate a custom eval, every time you make this kind of change, you can
your quantified metrics change as your retrieval system changes, which is very useful because
it's not something you can currently do with MTub.
MTub is literally just a static benchmark, the score doesn't change for a given embedding
model.
But if you have a generative benchmark, you're able to see how your performance changes as
you change your retrieval system.
So I'll go through this entire process of generative benchmarking through a case study
on waste and biases.
We partnered with them for this technical report, specifically using their technical
support bot.
So the bot would basically work in this kind of fashion where you have a user query, like
how can I view my previous runs?
And the bot would retrieve the relevant chunks of documentation.
And then using those relevant chunks, it would generate a response.
So it's just basic rug.
And for this case study, we used our document corpus, which contained around 13,000 chunks
and around 2000 real user queries from production.
And we use those real user queries because you kind of use them as a proxy for how representative
our generated queries are.
So I'll get more into how we did that analysis later on.
But we got some pretty interesting insights from this.
The first one was that the original embedding model that they used actually performed worse
out of the four that we tested.
We also saw a contradiction with the MTEP model rankings.
So kind of showing that you really need to evaluate on your own data and not just generalize
from these MTEP scores.
And lastly, we identified a pretty good portion of document chunks that were judged as irrelevant.
And I'll get more into what that means later on.
But yeah, the overall generative benchmarking process can be broken down into these two
steps.
First, you have chunk filtering.
So this process basically filters for chunks that are good to generate queries from, filters
for topics that users will actually ask about.
And then from that subset of filter chunks, we're going to generate our queries to end
up with an evil set of queries.
So the first step is chunk filtering.
And yeah, as I just mentioned, the purpose of this is to identify the document chunks
that users would realistically query.
This was an example of a document that was filtered out for reason biases.
It's about the startup raising $3 million.
It's pretty unlikely that a user using their support bot would ask about this.
They probably want to get help with debugging or just ask about their technical documentation.
They're probably not going to ask about anything related to startup news.
So we would want to filter out these kinds of documents so that we generate queries from
topics that are actually relevant to the user so we can get more of a representative evil
set.
We do this chunk filtering using an LLM judge.
But more specifically, we use an aligned LLM judge, which basically means that we have
a set of human label data, and then we iterate on our LLM judge to make it more aligned to
that.
And we do this using a framework called evalgen, where we basically have a set of LLM judge
criteria like the ones to the right here.
And then we also have a small subset of human label data.
So these are like document chunks that were labeled as like good or bad document chunks
by humans.
And so we run our LLM judge, see how it compares to our human labeled data, and then we keep
iterating on each prompt, maybe switch out a few criteria and see how our alignment score
changes.
So once we got a pretty good alignment score, we use that to filter out the rest of our
document chunks.
So we initially went from our set of around 13,000 document chunks to around 8,500.
And so now that we have our filtered out document chunks, we move on to query generation.
And we're going to do this by using user provided context and example queries.
So the LLM prompt might look something like this, where you give it the context of the
kind of retrieval application you're building.
You give it the document chunk.
And then you also give it some example queries as well.
And these are pretty important components because providing the context basically helps
to get the LLM to focus on the kinds of topics that users would ask about and example queries
help with the style of query to generate.
And so if you were to naively generate a query, which basically means that you would generate
a query by literally just giving it the document chunk and telling it to generate a query without
giving it any context or example queries, it might generate something like this, asking
what is the purpose of artifact versioning in Ways and Biases?
Whereas if you give it the context that this is a technical support bot and talk about
what Ways and Biases does and give it some example queries, you might get a query that's
more realistic, like artifact versioning not working.
So these, I guess, user provided components are pretty critical for generating realistic
queries that are maybe more like ambiguous and reflect practical scenarios.
So now that we have our EVO set of queries, we also have our query document pairs.
Our query document pairs are basically formed by the document that we generated the query
from.
So now we're going to run our retrieval task.
And we do this by first choosing an embedding model we want to evaluate.
We use this to embed each document chunk, store it into a vector database.
And then for each query that we generated, we would embed that query and retrieve the
top K document chunks.
And if the matching document chunk was in our top K results, that would count as a success.
So that's how we get retrieval metrics, like Recall K, NDCG, et cetera.
And so we can run this retrieval task for various embedding models.
So in our case, we tested it with four different embedding models.
And we also tested it with the ground truth production queries as well.
So with the production queries, like the 2000 that we got before, we labeled them manually.
So we found a matching document in the document corpus.
So that formed our query document pairs.
And then we ran the same retrieval task with our production ground truth queries to kind
of use as a proxy for how representative our EVO set is.
And these are the results that we got.
So you can look at the blue bar, which is our ground truth production queries.
And the red represents our generated queries.
And these are the Recall at 10 scores.
And we performed this across four different embedding models.
We used two OpenAI models and one genome model, one voice model.
But you can see here that the ranking of our embedding models is consistent, regardless
of whether you look at the ground truth queries or the generated queries.
And you can also see that the scores themselves are also pretty similar, especially when you
compare it to the naively generated queries here too.
So the naively generated queries are the queries that we generated, doing no document filtering.
And when we were generating the query, we didn't give it any context or example queries.
So the most basic query generation you can do.
And you can see here that our naive generation method gave us scores that were significantly
higher compared to our ground truth production queries.
And this is because when you naively generate a query, you're more likely to generate a
query that is very specific to the document chunk, also in the form of a complete question,
which is not very realistic, but it also makes the retrieval task a lot easier, which is why
you get these higher scores.
But when you're evaluating different models, you don't necessarily want to aim for higher
scores. You want scores that are more realistic.
So what we're aiming for here are metrics that are more aligned to our ground truth scores.
And another interesting finding here was that our generated benchmark resulted in different
embedding model rankings when we compared it to MTub.
So these are various embedding models on MTub English tasks.
You can see here that Gina's model outperformed OpenAI's large model.
But if you look back at these results here, you can see that OpenAI's large model performed
better than Gina.
So the rankings are flipped in this case.
So this just goes to show that you really need to test on your own data and you can't
always generalize from these MTub scores.
Like if Gina did well on MTub English, that doesn't necessarily mean that it's also going
to do well on your technical documentation.
It also doesn't mean that OpenAI's large is always going to outperform Gina.
There are definitely cases where Gina would do better than OpenAI at large.
You just have to see on your own data and experiment.
So these are some of the insights we got from this case study.
The original embedding model that they use was text embedding 3 small, which performed
worse out of the four models that we tested.
We also saw the contradiction with the MTub model rankings that I just discussed.
Through our LLM judge chunk filtering step, we were able to identify some irrelevant document
chunks in the corpus.
So in your retrieval application specifically, there are a few useful applications of generative
benchmarking.
Even if you don't have production data yet, you can use generative benchmarking.
If you only have a document corpus to work with, you can use that to select the best
embedding model for your data and engage how well your current retrieval system is performing.
Identify these potentially irrelevant chunks.
You probably want to take a look at it manually just to make sure that it's aligned with your
judgment as well.
And I went through this before as well, but you can use generative benchmarking to iterate
on specific components of your retrieval pipeline.
But I think it becomes even more powerful once you actually have production traffic
to work with.
So if you have queries from production, you can use that for things like query alignment,
which is this first point here.
So let's say that you have a set of production queries and you have your eval set of queries.
You can cluster your production queries maybe by topic, and you can kind of see the distribution
of topics that your users are asking about.
And then you can use that distribution and align your eval set to that so that it matches
the distribution of topics that your users are actively asking.
That would just make your eval set even more representative.
You can also use this to identify knowledge gaps in your document corpus as well.
If you have these incoming queries, you can see what kind of queries might be out of distribution
with your eval set.
And that can be an indication that maybe that kind of topic isn't covered in your document
corpus.
So yeah, these are all pretty useful applications of generative benchmarking, which you're not
really able to get out of just public static benchmarks right now.
And there's some final notes here.
I think the main takeaway from this entire talk is that if you have good performance
on public benchmarks like MTEP, that doesn't necessarily guarantee that same performance
for your specific use case.
And generative benchmarking is a pretty good solution to that.
And when we talk about generative benchmarking, that also doesn't mean that this entire process
is 100% automated.
You do need some human in the loop if you really want a good eval.
For example, you would want to align your LLM judge.
You want to add in user-provided context and example queries to steer your LLM query generation.
So you really just need to take a look at your data and make sure that this entire process
is aligned to how you might judge the data that you're working with.
And if you want to read into some more details, we have our full technical report available
at research.tricroma.com.
You can also try this out for yourself.
You can literally just run these two lines in your terminal and try out generative benchmarking
on your own data.
And yeah, last point here is that Chroma Cloud is now live.
You can go sign up, try out Chroma Cloud at this link here.
I think that pretty much concludes it for my talk.
I'm happy to answer any questions now, but thank you everyone for taking the time to
join today.
Thank you as well.
I heard that there were some new research reports coming out.
Are you able to foreshadow or hint at any of the new material?
One thing we're working with right now is we're looking into long context versus retrieval.
I feel like that's been a pretty big debate for a long time.
And when you think about long context, you probably think of benchmarks like Needle in
the Haystack.
That's a very popular test that you'll probably see in a lot of LLM mono releases.
But Needle in the Haystack is a very easy task for LLMs, and it doesn't necessarily
cover the practical use cases of long context.
Just for some more background here, Needle in the Haystack is a very easy task where
given a large corpus of tasks, and the LLM just has to pick one tiny portion of that
LLM context.
We don't really have any indication of how it's processing the entire LLM context.
So we're just doing some more robust testing on various long context tasks of varying levels
of difficulty, seeing which ones actually align with more practical use cases, and looking
into how retrieval can help you overcome those challenges as well.
But it's been something that we've been thinking about for a long time, because I think a lot
of people are kind of misled by when people talk about long context, people just think
like, oh, models just do really good.
I can throw everything into the context.
It's going to do well.
But no, that's really not the case.
You really need to do some more robust testing.
And we're hoping to show people that.
Lovely.
Yeah, I'm really excited for some of this kind of stuff.
I feel like I've been making fun of people saying RAG is dead.
And they now get it.
So I got to step back my statements and explain why.
Cool.
Let's jump into some question answer.
Let me know if you want me to take over any of the questions, too.
I think a lot of the stuff is actually covered in some of the stuff that I'm teaching.
I will say one call out for those who are sort of participating in the cohort.
Chroma is giving like $1,000 of API credits.
So I think you're going to email sometime at the end of the week or today or end of
the week on how to get access to that.
So that should be pretty interesting.
I think the first question people have is, how do you pick your future examples for
career generation?
So I have sort of my thoughts.
I'm curious how you guys did it in your analysis.
Yeah, in our case, we got to work with production data from Ways and Biases.
So we had actual user queries.
So we would just randomly select around like five or six from those and then use that
as part of the LLM context.
But if you don't have any production queries, it's also pretty easy to just manually
write them yourself.
It doesn't really take a lot around like five to like seven example queries is good.
If you're building maybe like a rag like shop bot, you can probably predict like what
kind of questions your users are going to ask.
You know, they're not going to be like complete questions, most likely like statements or
like people are trying to like debug something if you're building like, I don't
a technical support bot like Ways and Biases.
So it's pretty easy to like, I guess, like kind of predict.
But once you start getting production data and you have like a few example queries to
work with, then you can start to use those.
But regardless, like I think it's pretty easy to like get like a small set of like queries
to put into the context.
Yeah.
What are your thoughts on this?
Yeah.
So generally, a lot of the work that I've been doing has been working with companies
that have like a vertically integrated AI.
And so we just harass our subject matter experts.
Okay, what do you actually care about?
Like, what are the things that really are important to you?
Like if you're looking at legal questions, like what kind of search are you doing?
And we'll kind of have a set of those questions.
And the other thing that we do is we'll actually just pass LLMs through all the text chunks
that we have and we'll do some kind of role playing exercise that says, hey, you are a
paralegal working a case, you've been shown this document, journeyed a couple of questions
that would have retrieved this document.
And then we go back and we harass our lawyers, we harass our subject matter experts and say,
is this realistic?
Is this something you actually care about?
And kind of do that process.
Yeah, yeah.
I think I've seen that approach a lot too, like kind of asking like an alum to like play
this role.
Like if you were this kind of person, like what kind of queries would you ask?
But I think, yeah, like you mentioned, it's really important that you actually have people
manually review it as well.
Like don't just give it to an LLM and trust that the example queries are good.
Like, you know, get an expert out the data and, you know, make sure they're actually
reflective of what your users will ask.
Yeah.
The latest thing, which I've been testing recently, is actually doing deep research
first.
So you do the same exercise, but you do deep research and say, OK, I'm going to build a
search system for lawyers that have to deal with their own claims.
Go do deep research.
Prepare me the document.
And then that's like half of my prompt.
Surprisingly good.
Right.
Really?
I haven't tried that, but that could be interesting to experiment.
Because we did this for like restaurants and people were like, oh, you know, we might ask
about things like availability and like whether or not there's parking and how you do reservations
and can you do like catering?
It's like, oh yeah, those are questions people ask, but we only supported like search over
the menu.
But a chatbot should be able to answer this kind of stuff.
And now I'm going to go to web crawlers and make sure we do have the information about
like parking or like do you like, you know, all this kind of stuff.
It's been a really fun task.
Yeah, that's interesting.
The inventory that we have.
Yeah.
I guess a follow up to this is once you have these queries, you know, can you talk a little
bit more about the KPIs or metrics you use to evaluate retrieval here?
I think I saw ndcg, but I'm curious to hear more.
Yeah.
Oh, oops.
Yeah, the main metrics we use were, like you said, ndcg and recall.
We just use these like quantified metrics that you can immediately get from the retrieval
task.
There are other kinds of metrics that you can get if you use an LLM judge.
You can judge for like faithfulness and things like that.
But yeah, for this task, we just looked at recall ndcg.
Just very basic metrics that you can use.
We didn't use an LLM judge.
It's because for our research, this was kind of enough to show that our generated queries
were relevant.
But I imagine if you're applying this to your own retrieval application, you can also add
in those more qualitative judgments as well if you want to test whether it's factually
correct.
Yeah, probably makes sense.
I also find that when you're doing these large evaluations, I think in this example you had
8,000 chunks.
We've seen situations where you're doing testing over 10 million documents.
Doing the retrieval takes like 50 milliseconds per test, but if you do an LLM, it's like
one second per test.
And then you wake up and say, hey, who ran the evals?
We just spent $5,000 on LLM as a judge.
Yeah, it can get very expensive.
So I think just having these metrics like recall are honestly pretty good.
They can be sufficient if you're just starting out and if you're working with a lot of data
as well.
Yeah.
Oh, this is a curious question.
Anything that you would caution others about when building out evals and observability
for any of these tools?
Have you or any of your customers felt any traps when building RAG applications?
I think it's really easy for a lot of people to use automated evals and they don't really
take a look at their data.
For example, if you are thinking about this chunk filtering step where you use an LLM
judge to filter out certain documents, I think a common approach that people might do is
they just give it a prompt and trust that it would work.
But it's really important that you iterate in small steps and you actually look at the
So we initially worked with just a small set of 300 document chunks.
We manually labeled each one and then we will keep iterating on it, I think, four times
or something until we got it to be pretty aligned and then we extended it to the rest
of our corpus.
So I think my recommendation would be to start small, don't scale way too quickly and automate
everything.
There's a lot of manual work that is required in the beginning if you want to do good evals.
Yeah, you can't delegate all the thinking to these LLMs.
I would agree in the sense that a lot of it is just a reluctance to actually look at the
examples.
There are so many situations where we just run these evals like, great, this factuality
V1 score is 78, is that good or bad?
We don't really know.
And then you actually look at the example and it's like, oh, it just seems that the
longer the answer is, the higher the score is.
Is that actually what we want?
That's one thing.
Yeah.
I'll say the second thing too, which aligns really well with what you talked about in
terms of the LLM evals, which is I think too many people lean on these LLM evals, which
kind of give you this feeling of control because you're kind of always twiddling with the generation
prompt.
Like maybe if I change the prompt, the answer score will be better.
But really, if you find out that your recall is very low, you just can't find the document
because of some phrasing in the text.
If your search is bad, everything else downstream with that is really bad.
But I think people feel very empowered to twiddle with the prompt versus actually figure
out how to make search better, actually think about the embeddings or thinking about what
is good precision or having evals there.
Yeah, exactly.
You can't really get very far if you're only looking at the prompt.
And I feel like a lot of that is honestly just based off of vibes too, what kind of
output are you getting?
There's really no systematic way to do this if you're not working these incremental steps.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think too many people are like, okay, given an open textbook, can we get the answers?
Actually, do you even know what page the answer is on?
Yeah.
Checking that you found page seven is much easier than figuring out whether the answer
you wrote based on reading this book is straightforward.
Let's go some other interesting questions here.
Oh, what was your experience with the contextual chunk rewriting?
I know you guys maybe did an article beforehand, but I'm curious, how did that actually improve
search?
We didn't include it in this specific technical report, but yeah, we have done some experimentation
with it before.
I guess for some more context, contextual rewriting is where you rewrite all of your
document chunks so that it's situated in the context of your document.
It was originally some work done by Anthropic, but basically you would do this for each document
chunk.
You would pass that and the entire document into an LLM and tell it to generate a summary
for it, contextualizing it.
Then you append that context to the beginning of the chunk.
This is pretty useful because maybe if you're working with some financial document or something
and you have a lot of tables, maybe a chunk you have is just a table with a lot of numbers.
There's no context into where that came from or what any of those numbers mean.
If you retrieve that, then that's really not going to be useful to you at all.
Context is really important.
We've done some work before experimenting with this.
It does help a lot, but I think a downside of that is that it's also very, very expensive.
You're running an LLM and giving it the entire document for every single document chunk.
If you have tens of thousands of document chunks, it's probably not realistic to do.
When we were actually looking at our data, we realized some of the chunks don't really
need contextual rewriting, whereas some do.
It's probably not necessary to rewrite every single chunk.
I think maybe this filtering step could be pretty useful for that.
Instead of just classifying a chunk as good or bad, maybe you can just have ... In this
process you can classify it as, oh, it needs context or it's just really poor quality,
you can't use it at all, or it's just good.
If you end up just with a subset of document chunks that you contextualize, I think that's
a more cheaper and efficient way to do it.
I haven't tested it out fully, so I'm not totally sure what the metrics will look like
on that.
But, yeah, contextual rewriting is useful, but also very expensive.
I would be more intentional about how you use it.
Well, this is the benefit of having an actual eval harness, because I think the real conversation
here isn't, should we use retrieval or should we use contextual retrieval?
It is, okay, well, if we use contextual retrieval, our metrics go up 2%.
Is that worth it?
Probably not.
But if you did contextual retrieval and it went up 20%, then the question is, okay, well,
is spending 20 cents per document worth the 20% improvement in retrieval?
That is a quantified decision that you can make.
And you're basically saying, am I willing to pay more for better results?
And that's a decision versus should I ... Exactly.
I think, yeah, like you said, it really depends on your use case.
Like I mentioned before, if you're working with financial documents or cases where you're
very likely to have document chunks that require context, then yeah, it's probably useful.
But you might also have other cases where you don't necessarily need all of that.
Maybe you're working with 100K document chunks and all of them have sufficient context.
It's probably not necessary, so you really just have to test it out and, like you said,
make a decision from there.
Yeah, you'll be surprised.
I mean, I worked with a bunch of companies that did a transcript processing and they
were using semantic search.
And I was like, you know, I said the words.
I said the words and I heard what they said.
I don't even need semantic search.
What if we just did that?
And it was like 1% less accurate, but 10 times faster.
And I was like, well, I might be willing to pay for that because if I want to find meeting
notes, I want that to be as fast as possible.
Yeah.
Once you have those evals.
But exactly.
I think some of these questions are very much the same.
I'm curious if anyone has any questions that they want to ask, feel free to use the hand
raise and I can call you out as I scan the list of questions here.
One question I like to ask the speakers is, is there a question you wish we asked you?
Oh, that's a good question.
I think something that comes up a lot, I think I briefly touched on this was, like, you know,
if you have generative benchmarks and it's just completely automated, I just run a full
notebook, I just press that one button and everything's done for me.
The answer is no.
I think manually looking at our data and, oh, I think there's a question.
Yeah, human involvement is very critical if you want really good evals.
I think it applies to basically any case where you're working with AIS well.
I think it's very rare that your system is going to work well with absolutely no human
in the loop.
So that's very important.
Even if you have generative benchmarks, you still need some human in the loop to make
that process really, really good.
Makes sense.
Oh, man, I think I'm going to butcher this name.
Srivirang?
I don't know if I said that wrong, but yeah, shoot.
So thank you.
Great presentation.
I just wanted to know how you would be processing metadata into this whole pipeline.
Documents, a whole lot, you know, enterprises have a whole bunch of metadata that go along
with a lot of us.
So how would you process that context coming in?
That's a really good question.
I think maybe metadata could be useful when you're performing the retrieval task.
In this case, when we're evaluating whether we have successful recall, it's just based
on the query document pair.
It's either you succeeded or you didn't.
But I imagine if you have metadata, let's say you have a query and retrieve a category
of documents that have a certain metadata tag.
Maybe that can count as a partial retrieval success.
So maybe it wasn't completely 100% much, but it's still partially relevant and maybe you
can count that as a 0.5 score or something like that.
I think it can also be useful for when you're doing chunk filtering as well.
Maybe there are a few cases, for example, when we're working with Ways and Busses here,
maybe it would have been helpful if there were metadata tags indicating the source that
these document chunks came from.
I think that can be a really good pre-filtering step before you apply to LLM Judge.
So if all this data was just scripted from the website, maybe there was a case where
we have a metadata tag that says, oh, this is from our news section.
We'd want to filter those out because that's not really relevant to our users.
So I think for filtering and evaluation could be pretty useful.
But Jason, if you have any thoughts on that, feel free to add.
I think it would also depend on the types of metadata filters that exist.
For example, if you have really simple ones like, show me all the news articles from last
week, we can individually test our ability to select date ranges.
We had this issue at Exa, funny enough, we'll talk about this today, where I think we were
using 3.5 and the way it would search for today made the start time and the end date
the same. And so we would search no results.
OK, like today actually kind of needs to be a little bit more future seeking.
If it's calendars, it needs to be something else.
Let me go add parts of the prompt to test that.
If we had, for example, filters, we wouldn't need to search through retrieval.
But maybe if I searched for research papers on AI and archive, I need the I need to test
whether or not the archive domain name exists in the allow list of domain names in that
search filter. And so there is going to be times where we can verify the retrieval and
there are times where we can verify the structured extraction task.
Does the search query result in some assertions on the metadata?
Is the date range correct?
Is the search index filter correct?
Is the whitelist domain names correct?
Those basically feel like classification tasks that have like zero one pass fail criteria
that we could use to improve our ability to do this search search resolution.
Thank you.
No problem. Jan?
Yeah, hello. I was wondering for the contextualized chunking, if it would work, that if you
would just summarize the document where the chunk comes from once and then add that summary
to each chunk and then embed it, that would avoid having to put the whole text with each chunk.
I think the danger there is that now we've just replaced one problem with another, which is
how good is my summary?
Does my summary include all references to named entities?
Does my summary obfuscate any numbers?
Those become just, I guess, a separate set of problems.
So yes, we could do that, but now we have to evaluate whether or not our summary is
actually good at hydrating the existing chunk.
So we've just replaced one problem with another.
I think also if you have the same summary for every single document chunk, that might
make the retrieval task a bit more difficult as well, because then your chunks become a
lot more similar and it's harder to disambiguate if you have very similar chunks.
I think if you want cheaper LLM calls, maybe one solution to that could be to just get
the surrounding text of the chunk.
So maybe you don't have to feed in the entire document into the LLM.
Maybe you just get a thousand or a few hundred tokens surrounding whatever chunk you want
to embed and then summarize from that.
I think I've tried that before as well and I think that's been pretty effective.
You get similar results from passing in the entire document, because usually it just
requires that local context, not the entire document.
So I think if you want a cheaper method, that could be a way.
But I think, as Jason mentioned, summaries might bring about additional problems.
Obviously, it depends on your use case, but I think good to be aware of that.
Yeah, and perhaps this is the first thing to try.
And if that doesn't work based on your evals, then you can go to a more expensive way of
summarizing.
That's the takeaway.
Yeah, because I guess for both methods, you know what the price is and you know what the
scores are. So you've got to ask ourselves, is the extra dollar worth the 2% drop, etc.?
George?
Yeah, so I know this is mainly focused on embedding in vector database, but maybe either
you speak more to potentially like the trend to going back to more of a search model of
which, you know, vector database is just one facet of the entire search picture and
potentially how would evals change with regards to that, you know, rather than just
embedding vector.
Yeah, I would almost say there is no difference.
You know, things like precision, recall, NDCG, these are things that we took from the
information retrieval literature.
And so actually, it's been used to evaluate lexical search for a very, very long time
beforehand. And so really, I think the work to be done is actually just making sure that
when we do these kinds of tests, that we are verifying whether or not there are
significant gains to doing hybrid search or doing just lexical search.
Right.
Like in the example I talked about before with transcripts, it turns out if you're
searching over transcripts, because the searcher like remembers the words that was
heard and said, and there's never like semantic ambiguity, lexical search does
really, really well.
Right.
Because I never need to understand whether or not I said the word forest, but I
searched the word tree.
Like that happens in semantic world.
But, you know, chances are if I said something to you during a call, I remember
what I said, so lexical search does better.
That's a discovery we've made because we did this test versus like a assumption that
I had over the data.
And then the question is now we can ask, great, well, semantic search adds about 500
milliseconds of latency.
Is it worth doing hybrid for that additional 500 milliseconds?
And maybe we say, OK, for 500 milliseconds, we get a 2% improvement.
Is it worth it?
Your call. Right.
Or it could be, you know, for lexical search, it's so much faster, but it's
actually the same performance.
Now we can make other decisions.
Yeah, I think like Jason said, I think a lot of like the same principles and just
like search applied to semantic search, like that's where like semantic search
principles came from.
So, yeah, I don't think like like your framework for like thinking about like evals
for like semantic search versus search like changes that much.
And you can definitely like experiment with like, you know, like hybrid search and see
how that like improves performance.
But yeah, you really just have to like experiment with your own data and like see.
How that changes.
So, yeah.
Yeah.
Clark.
Yeah.
Two basic, basic related questions.
One was what sort of type of parameters are you sweeping over and how long would you
spend doing that?
And two, what sort of either prompt changes or, you know, like, I guess, just look at
your data, finish, do you check various combinations there and how long do you
spend on that?
I know you said like mess with your judge prompt people twiddle.
So I was just like curious on your, like all the things you checked and how long
you spent checking.
Yes.
So the first question was like, oh, like what are the parameters we changed?
The second question is how long do we spend doing that?
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, I think I can go step by step.
So for chunk filtering, we basically use this framework called eBeltgen where you
iterate on like a set of LLM judge criteria.
So these are like the kind of like criteria that we would change.
Like we had like relevance, like completeness intent.
I think we had like a few others, like clarity, like user intent as well.
But yeah, basically you would like use these criteria and you would compare like
your LLM judgements with your like human labeled data.
And then you can get like an alignment score from there.
I think initially you got a score of around like 47% or like something around
that range, which is pretty low.
And then from that, maybe we can like change like individual criteria because we had
alignment scores for like each criteria as well.
So if like clarity was like 40% alignment, we probably want to take that out or like
modify that prompt.
So yeah, you can like change or like either like change the criteria or like take it
out or like add a new one.
So that's what we're changing.
We did a few iterations of this.
I think we did around like four or five iterations, but we did it across like a small
subset of data.
So we were only working with like 300 labeled document chunks.
So it was like very quick iteration.
We weren't doing it over like our entire document corpus.
So I think like that probably took like less than a day for me to do.
And the LLM calls weren't like super expensive either because you're working with
like such a small subset of data.
So yeah, and then we also experimented a bit with like query generation as well, like
adding in like context and example queries.
And yeah, during our process, we would like experiment with like naive query generation
as well. Like what if we like don't include the context?
What if we don't include the example queries?
And we obviously saw that like performance doesn't really like reflect what you would
see in production.
This didn't really take like that much iteration to do.
But again, just working with like a very like small like subset of data so you can do
like very quick iteration on that.
Hope that answers your question, but let me know if I can clarify anything.
Yeah, I mean, it sounds like this whole project I've done in two days of doing with
the prompt.
Yeah, yeah.
I would also say, you know, most of how much time you spend on it really depends on
like what kind of existing infrastructure exists.
Right. For example, if you have large corpuses that need to be embedded really
quickly, it really depends on like, well, do you have your own embedding models and
your own GPUs or do you have to like, you know, harass the open AI like embedding
endpoint? I think that's one thing where like investments in that really just
allows you to run more experiments.
And then the other thing I would call out and from a resource perspective, I mostly
try to time box how much research we're going to do and then figure out how many
experiments we can run.
And usually what's going to happen is as you iterate on your prompts and on your
models, the marginal improvement in performance will slowly decrease.
And you can generally just like visualize that over time.
And, you know, it's going to be a thing where I think Kelly mentioned, like the
first experiment went from like forty seven to sixty, then it goes to seventy,
then eighty, then ninety, then ninety one and ninety one point two.
And you're like, OK, well, I want to stop here.
It's been four days.
And then the real question is, are you investing in your experimental
infrastructure to do that really quickly?
Like I've joined companies where they're embedding models is like.
Like sequential call to open a eye and I was like, well, this is why it's taking
you six days to do these experiments.
Like what's going on?
And then their LLM calls are like also synchronous and there's no caching.
And so something fails and they got to run it over again.
It's like, this is why it takes you two days to run one experiment.
That's a lot of sort of what I got at least from a team level, how we think about it.
One of the things I really get a benefit from is I just get to use modal a bunch.
And so like if I want to run experiments on Wikipedia, it takes me like 10 minutes
to reinvent all of Wikipedia with any arbitrary model that I want.
And that makes me feel really good about sweeping over a very large set of hyperparameters
because I can just pay money to solve that problem.
Those are the kind of things I really think about, but it is oftentimes more
time boxing, like your engineer and then figuring out how to make the most out of
the experiments.
Yeah.
You need like a high level conversation around that.
Cause yeah, I got like, you can always get a little bit better if you just spend way
more time and way more money.
And most of it is actually around setting up the conditions for when you give up the
research rather than when you're done.
And what's probably going to happen is at some point the retrieval is not going to
be the limiting factor.
And then you will have RLM, you know, like a

Like a
point that retrieval is not going to be the limiting factor.
And then you will have earned the right to start thinking about editing the prompt
generation prompt.
Actually, like I recall as 99 percent, I know the damn answer is in one of these
75 chunks I put in, but the language model is still not answering the question.
Now I really have the right to experiment with how I answer the question and how I
think about citations and whatnot.
But, you know, I work with a bunch of companies where they're like filling with a
generation prompt and temperature for like three weeks.
And then we do these evals, you're like, your recall is 40 percent, man.
You can't answer half these questions.
Why are you trying to like change temperature?
This is the wrong variable to experiment with.
Those times that's happened like three or four times.
And yeah, it's kind of silly.
That's that tends to be what it ends up looking like in real life.
George, let's do one more question and then I think we'll.
I'm dying.
One more question.
Yeah, yeah.
So it sounds like almost this is just one part of the larger eval equation, right?
Because because you're you're it's almost like unit testing, if you will, versus
integration testing.
And at some point you do move on to integrated eval in terms of the entire pipeline.
You know, from query to response, like how good is the answer, even though your recall
might be 99 percent, but as you said, your answer is still at 30 percent.
What's wrong?
And then secondly, I'm kind of curious, have you guys experimented with DSPy at all in
terms of, you know, doing either performing some of the, you know, the
eval metric and some of the prompt engineering or in DSPy case, the lack of prompt
engineering because they treat that as part of eval as well.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I'll address like both points.
I think the first one about this being kind of like a unit test, like within your
entire pipeline, I think that's a really good way to think about it.
I think like as Jason mentioned, like if you have like this full like rock pipeline,
but you're like only looking at the generation part, you can't really pinpoint
the whole pipeline.
So you mess with things like temperature, but like maybe the real problem is like in
retrieval, and this is like how you attest for that individual step.
And so you can like really pinpoint like, okay, it's like my retrieval failing is my
generation failing, and then you can kind of work more like systematically from there.
So yeah, it's just like one part of like the entire like eval process.
And regarding DSPy, we didn't experiment with that in our research, but we did
experiment with it in our research.
And regarding DSPy, we didn't experiment with that in our research, but I think that
could be really interesting to work with.
I guess for more context, like DSPy is kind of a way to like programmatically like
optimize like LLM prompts instead of just like, you know, manually like writing it
out like each time.
I haven't worked with it too much myself, but yeah, I think that could also be
pretty interesting.
And yeah, if like anyone like applies it to this.
So I'll say on the DSPy side before you jump off, which is it's really good if you
have all the answers, then you can actually optimize something.
But that ends up requiring more work because what I've actually said is actually I
have a label for every pair that I've created and most people that I work with
don't have those labels.
And so, you know, I think I think with mostly the optimization stuff, I was like,
yeah, if you give me a CSV file of all the answers, the chunks and the right answers
and whether or not they're good, I can do something in 20 minutes.
But it turns out 90 percent of the work was produced in that CSV file.
And then by that point, you may as well just like own your generation code as well.
And so the work to get to a point where you got to use DSPy is usually way, way
greater. And then incrementally, in terms of like owning your execution, like your
orchestration and your execution.
It like the prompt end up being quite simple.
And when something needs to change, they're changed and oftentimes they're changed in
ways that don't have scores attached to them.
Right. Like we don't actually have good answer, bad answer labels.
It's actually a bunch of really nuanced things like how are you using citations and,
you know, is the answer like sufficient length and are we being ambiguous with like
referencing things in the context?
Those things DSPy can't do.
And it's really just about understanding your customer preferences.
With that said, I think we can end it like four minutes early because I need to get
some water and then we're going to jump off to the next lecture that is happening today,
which is doing semantic search over the Web with Exa.
Bing is shutting off their search API.
A lot of companies are need this kind of stuff.
And I think Exa is in a really good position to share more about how they do like
Internet scale search.
And with that, you know, Kelly, thank you so much.
I actually learned quite a bit from this talk and I'm excited to see you guys in San
Francisco. Awesome.
Thank you so much for having me.
Awesome. Take care.
Thanks, everyone.
