For everyone who's participating right now and those who are watching the videos, I want
to ask, watching the videos, what is the one thing you want them to be thinking about?
What is the one thing they're going to take away from this talk?
I would say that speed definitely matters when it comes to agents.
Somebody who's using an agent does not want to see a flow agent.
They want to get their answer as quickly as possible.
People are impatient.
And I'm going to be sharing strategies on how you can make it faster and make it a better
experience for your users.
There will just be one slide that says use Croc.
All right.
Let's jump in.
Take it away.
All right.
Hi, everyone.
For those of you who don't know me, I'm Arush.
I lead evals at Croc.
The scope of my role goes from bringing up new models on Croc hardware to working with
customers to figure out how Croc is good for their specific use case.
So a lot of the customers who I interact with, one of their biggest bottlenecks and one of
the reasons that they turn to Croc is latency.
When they have some sort of agent workflow, they find that when they're using OpenAI or
Google or Anthropic, their agent workflow is taking like 45 seconds to a minute.
And they see Croc and they see that we're fast.
And they're like, please, can you help us speed this up?
So today I want to dig into a few actionable strategies on how you can reduce the latency
of your agents.
And to be very honest with you, some of those ways are not going to include using Croc.
This isn't going to be a talk where I just show fast inference because that's not the
only way you can reduce the latency of your agents.
So a lot of the strategies that I'll be sharing, you'll be able to use even if you don't want
to use our product.
So maybe we can start with something about breaking down what exactly I mean by latency
and what are the key metrics that you should be paying attention to when you're building
an agent.
So the first one that, so we have four of them here, right?
TTFT, TPS, E2E latency and step latency.
So I'm going to go down this list and I'm going to basically define each one of them.
So TTFT is time to first token.
A lot of you guys might know what this is.
This is the delay from the moment that the user sends the request or the agent decides
its next step until the very first piece of output starts rendering.
This includes everything, which is receiving the request, building the prompt, calling
the model, starting to generate.
So from our testing, users start to feel frustrated around the 500 millisecond to one second mark
when it comes to time to first token.
Unfortunately, that time to first token has sort of been normalized with a lot of the
larger models that are out there.
But a lot of more general users seem to think that something is broken if their software
isn't responding within a second or two.
The second one is tokens per second.
So once like text starts appearing, how fast does it flow?
So at 100 tokens per second, which sounds fast, right, a detailed like a thousand token
response still takes 10 seconds just to generate.
This is after TTFT.
The third one is end-to-end latency.
This is what the users actually experience.
This is the total time from the question or the start of when you call your agent to when
you get your complete answer.
It's not just the sum of step latencies, which we'll get to later.
But actually, let me go to step latencies first.
So step latency is one that you guys may not have heard of before for the stock.
But in its essence, step latency is how long it takes for one step of an agent to run,
right?
So agents work in steps.
They'll observe the situation.
They'll think about it.
They'll decide what to do, do it, process the results.
So each step has its own latency that can include like time for the LLM to reason or
time for it to call external tools or APIs and to parse and integrate results.
And then of course, overhead from state management.
Right.
So going back to end-to-end latency, it's not just like the sum of step latencies because
agents don't always run linearly, right?
They can backtrack, retry failed operations, refine their approaches.
A task that could take 30 seconds can balloon to 90 seconds when things go wrong.
So maybe we can do a little demo of what exactly I mean by these metrics.
Right.
So in case you guys don't know, Grok has there, we recently built an agent system called Compound
Beta, which basically integrates web search and code execution into like the actual LLM
call.
So you don't have to deal with like building your own agents and kind of, you know, create
all the infrastructure on like web search tools, APIs and code execution.
It's called Compound Beta and Compound Beta Mini.
If you guys want to check it out, console.grok.com, there's the show.
One of the only shows we'll have in this talk.
And then so I'm going to ask Compound Beta Mini, like who is Jason Lu from 567?
We're going to see how fast it runs.
That was pretty quick.
So in this agent, this is like a very simple agent.
The first thing that Compound Beta Mini is going to do is it's going to figure out like
what exactly it needs to do.
So it's going to conduct a search.
Then after that, it's going to call the search tool, get its results back.
And then after that, it's going to summarize what it got from the search and return it
to the user.
So in total, that took around, how long did this take?
Yeah, like six tenths of a second.
Now, if we compare this with Perplexity Sonar, which is another similar compound system where
Perplexity integrates some form of web search into their LLM and allows you to access it
by API the same way we do with Compound Beta.
Still going, two seconds, three seconds.
By the time you get the full response, which is pretty similar, it's been 11.24 seconds.
So I want you guys to think, what do you think is going to be like a better user experience?
Something where the user gets the response back in less than a second or one where it takes
11 seconds.
Right.
Okay.
So we've kind of illustrated how latency can compound in real agents.
But maybe let's walk through a more complex example than just a web search request.
So let's say you have a travel planning agent.
I know that travel planning agents are kind of overused in terms of for agent demos.
Bear with me.
So a travel planning agent can have multiple steps.
Right.
And so the first step is going to be to parse the request.
The agent needs to understand what you're asking for.
Right.
That's one LLM call.
That's one second.
Step two to three, you're going to search for flights.
The agent calls a flight API and then uses the LLM to parse results.
It does the same thing for hotels.
Searches for hotels near where you're looking for.
That's another tool call.
Then it's going to filter options, which is a bunch of internal logic,
maybe another LLM call or a call to a reranker.
Actually, the demo here that I'm trying to show is like,
you're trying to book a flight to NYC from SF and book some tickets to MoMA.
So then it's going to find museum tickets, which is another tool call and a web action.
And it's going to draft its itinerary.
Then it's going to check the cost, refine and format the output.
This is all like nine steps total.
And this will take a decent amount of time.
Let's say the step latency for each of these steps
can go anywhere between one to three seconds.
In my notes here, I have that it takes 11 seconds total.
But that's the happy path.
What really happens?
Let's say the flight search returns too many results,
so the agent needs to refine the search.
That adds another three seconds.
The first hotel API call fails and needs a retry, add another two seconds.
The agent realizes it should also check transportation options.
That's another four seconds.
So now we're at 20 seconds, and that's still optimistic.
I've seen agents spiral into these loops,
where they're essentially debugging their own queries.
A 30-second task becomes like two minutes.
A user does not want to wait two minutes for a response from an AI system.
All right.
So the key insight here is that latency doesn't just add up.
It also multiplies with complexity.
So each decision point, each potential retry,
and each refinement step will compound the problem.
So how do you fix this?
I'm not just here to tell you guys what the problem is,
but I'm also here to tell you how you can make your agents actually faster.
So I have a few optimization strategies for in total.
So the first one is faster core inference.
Right.
You can use a faster or smaller model,
like Lama 3.370b instead of like GBT-40.
You can also just accelerate the model itself by quantizing it,
from like FP16 to in-date, or using like a hosted provider like Brock,
which uses where we use our own custom silicon to accelerate the model.
You can use efficient runtimes, such as xLama, sgLang, LLM,
or you can train like a faster or smaller model to mimic the larger or slower one.
The second way that you can optimize your latency
is not actually by attacking the latency at all.
All you need to do is stream the intermediate steps.
Right.
Essentially, the user doesn't need the response as quickly as possible.
Right.
They just need to know that something is happening.
Right.
So if you've seen deep research from on chat GPT,
you can see that when you send off like a deep research job,
all that's, you don't just get like a progress bar that keeps loading.
You don't just get like a progress bar that keeps loading for a solid 30 minutes.
You can also see exactly what the deep research is doing.
Right. Like what websites it's searching for, like what its thought process is.
This allows your users to understand that something is actually happening,
and you're not just sitting there looking at a blank screen.
There's another pattern that I've seen a lot of startups do.
There's a concept in UX called progressive refinement, where
the, in the context of agents, this means that the agent will first stream in like a quick acknowledgement of what exactly you're trying to get it to do, then like a rough answer.
And then it'll iteratively provide like better answers based off of all the data and the steps that it's going through.
Right.
For us as developers, this is great if you're, if the audience for your agent is a developer,
because developers love to see the internal state of any kind of data.
Of an agent, and for more general users, they see how the agent works and they get an idea of how exactly
you're providing it with actionable steps.
How exactly the agent is
going through the process of solving the user's problem.
So the third method is parallelism.
So optimizing sort of an agent graph.
Right.
So if we look at our travel example,
once we know like the destination and the dates for where we're trying to do,
why are we searching for flights and then hotels and then activities?
Right. These don't depend on each other.
You can run them simultaneously, right?
Three two second operations in parallel takes two seconds total, not six.
But this requires rethinking your agent architecture.
You need to map out what exactly the dependencies are.
What information does each step actually need?
Often this is much less than you think.
So there are two types of like parallelism that I like to,
that I like to implement when I'm making an agent.
The first one is data parallelism, which is processing multiple documents or search results
simultaneously.
And number two is task parallelism,
which is running different types of operations at the same time.
Right.
And then the fourth optimization that I have for like when you're reducing latency
is using speed improvements to make agents better, not just faster.
So you've made your agent faster with either core inference, streaming intermediate steps,
parallelism, or any other form of like speed improvement.
But you can also invest these speed gains into quality, right?
If you've cut your latency for your agent from let's say 20 seconds to 10 seconds,
you now have like 10 seconds of budget to spend.
So how do you invest it?
Right.
You can invest, you can give these, all of these 10 seconds back to the user
and just make your agent have the same quality, but make it be faster.
But you can also increase the quality for the same amount of time.
Right.
So you can do this by implementing other strategies for quality improvement,
like best event sampling or multi-path reasoning slash mixture of agents,
and then more thorough like tool use.
All right.
So wait one second.
Sorry, I'm lagging.
All right.
So best event sampling, for example, which is where you ask an LLM to,
you call an LLM with the same prompt multiple times and you ask it to pick the best one.
You can also do,
um,
you can also do like self-consistency, which is like having the agent solve problems multiple ways
and then verifying that they agree.
This catches like many fairly failure modes, but requires two to three times the amount of inference.
You can do verification loops where after the agent generates a plan,
you can have it critique its own plan and then revise.
But yeah, so those are the four methods, right?
Faster core inference, streaming intermediate steps,
parallelism, and then investing your speed gains into quality.
So a few key takeaways for from this talk.
Number one is that latency compounds, right?
Multi-step agents will amplify delays, understand your TTFT tokens per second,
step latency and end-to-end latency.
Number two is to measure everything.
So make sure you're tracking each of these different metrics.
Then you can attack latency on multiple fronts with core inference, streaming, and concurrency.
And then you can, your speed can unlock quality, right?
You can reinvest time savings into better reasoning, sampling, and verification.
I think that's about it for what I have here.
But if you have any questions, Jason.
Yeah, I have a couple questions.
Yeah, let's make sure we give some folks some time to leave them in the chat.
So again, there's a link.
You can add your questions there and we'll up with them.
One thing I'm actually really curious about is, you know, I think
historically with these, you know, machine learning system that were not LLM based,
if you were getting latency improvements, you're always going to be better off.
And I really like this perspective of actually just going back and reinvesting latency gains.
One thing that was a big issue for the recommendation systems world was you would find that,
you know, even at a project in like 2019 where we improved the latency of our system by 500
milliseconds and it was an incremental $8 million in revenue.
Do you feel like companies, do you think LLMs today are able to do, have those kind of results yet?
Like, I'm curious if anyone has said, you know, we use GROK and just through latency alone,
we're making more revenue.
We have more bookings because things are like working.
I'm really curious if you've seen any kind of results like that in the wild.
Definitely.
I've heard of a lot of anecdotes and I've seen a lot of companies who have switched over to GROK
and they've started using faster inference.
They've cut down their response times and they've gotten excellent feedback from their customers
who have said that, you know, you've shaved off, like the experience of your product seems so much
better and they've been able to demo these things and like existing like sales calls and things and
said, hey, we just cut our latency by like 50% and that provided an edge over other competitors
who had the same product, but it was slow.
I see.
Yeah, but it sounds like we're not at a place yet where we kind of know that, okay, if you had a,
you know, LLM booking agent, if it was 10% faster, there's actually going to be like more bookings.
Yeah, I don't think we're at that stage yet, but those agents are, even though they've been around
for like a few years, they're still quite nascent, right?
Yeah.
Not enough people or companies know how to build them in such a way.
Makes sense, makes sense.
I've seen some, like, and I guess on my RN, but yeah, I don't think we've ever seen any kind of
real research yet on like how latency affects the bottom line, but forget about that, forget about
that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, let's jump into some questions.
In terms of the people you're working with, like, what are your favorite tools to measure
things like latency and how do you embed them into your workflows?
Is it DidaDog?
Is it, you know, LogFire?
Is it BrainTrust?
What have folks been using recently?
I think BrainTrust, I think we interact with a lot of startups who are closer to, you know,
like what the cutting edge is, and I think BrainTrust has been the tool of choice for a lot of
companies when it comes to like evals and instrumentation around like measuring latency
and things.
We've also seen a lot of cases of like larger companies rolling their own instrumentation
stacks for this.
Again, it comes back to the point where it's like the industry is very much still
in its early stages and people don't know what the best thing to use for something like this
is.
Makes sense.
Yeah, I guess what kind of workflows have you seen around the latency work?
I think, you know, for most of what I've done in the past, it's just been, we track everything
in DidaDog, we had these group buys, we sort of just tackle things as they come, but do
you feel like there's any difference in trying to optimize these LLM apps versus these traditional
applications?
I feel like with traditional applications, it's much more deterministic what each step
is and what the latency of each step is.
And you can provide like proper alerting about, let's say, I don't know, this API is taking
five seconds instead of the 500 milliseconds that it's supposed to take.
But with LLMs, it's much harder to kind of figure out
like how long exactly an LLM call is going to take or how many steps this is going to take.
So I think it's not as much like alerting, but more just logging and having robust dashboards
for how long each step is taking or how long your overall agent workflow is taking.
And trying to go just monitoring that and figuring out
where the bottlenecks are a little more intelligent.
Like a lot more thought needs to be put into how latency is tracked and it's still very much
like an early stage.
Yeah, makes sense.
I think even this idea that you can turn on this reasoning and now to figure out like what is the
budget I have for both performance cost, could it cost more tokens and the latency of these systems
take a little bit longer.
Have you noticed any specific domains that are more or less sensitive to these kind of
latency things?
Like the example I always give is like e-commerce when they're trying to sell something.
But I'm curious what you've seen elsewhere.
I think definitely more in the consumer space, like e-commerce, chat apps, or like customer support
is like a huge thing that people are going to customer support because they're annoyed, right?
They don't want to wait even longer for a response.
Yeah.
What else?
I think just generally latency is something that doesn't hurt to have.
Doesn't hurt to have and like latency in any way kind of pisses people off.
So having less of it is just generally a good idea.
That's a good question.
Can you give an example of what you mean by data parallelism versus parallelism?
Yeah.
So for data parallelism,
let's say you have like 20, you have 20 documents, right?
And you want to, you need to process them in some way.
I feel like data parallelism is like a subset of task parallelism, which is very
determinant on what you're working with.
How do I explain this?
Maybe it's a good opportunity to have a data parallelism blog post for a VOD page.
Maybe it is, yeah.
We can follow up on that if you'd like.
Yes, let's do that.
Awesome.
Let's do some other questions before we jump into some of the live questions.
Oh, this is a good one.
How do you think about things like caching mechanisms?
I have my own answer, but I'm curious if you would hear your thoughts.
I think caching is definitely a method that I should have covered in this talk that I didn't.
But yeah, a lot of providers,
like there's prefix caching and then there's like actual like
LLM prompt caching that you can do on your end.
I think prefix caching is immensely useful.
So you should be structuring your prompts and like your agent workflows in a way that
an API provider can have more cache hits than cache misses,
which means like trying to keep as much of like the large context at the top
of like your prompts and then any changes that you make, like additional data or things
should come after like your, after like previous chat turns.
You can also use things like light LLM to like actually cache identical prompts
so that you don't even have to call the LLM provider that that can be
incredibly useful for saving LLM cost and latency.
What are your thoughts on it?
I mean, I think a lot of it could be also around,
like one of the things I like to do is do almost like caching chains of thought.
And so, you know, maybe in the first time you run this tool, you might have to,
so not to change the answers to questions, right?
So for example, maybe the first time I ask a question,
I have to retrieve 10 documents, genuine answer.
And if I have some user feedback that says this is a good answer,
next time that answer is part of the context.
And the idea is like instead of actually doing the caching,
and the idea is like instead of actually doing all this reasoning to get the answers,
like by the way, here are the 10 people context, here's like three baked answers.
You don't have to reason as much to get the original answer.
You just sort of like recite, repeat yourself.
That could be one way of doing it or building a UI that says,
let me just render those three answers first and then start streaming out tokens.
And so the idea is that the latency here is, you know, I can have some
classical code paths that render answers that sort of reduce the time the first token does zero.
And so at least I'm seeing something on the page before I generate a new answer, right?
It's almost like showing the links first and then showing the tokens streams out.
And it checks out.
So let's also do some live questions.
So if folks can see the react, you can sort of raise your hand
and we'll call out some questions that way.
And then as people are sort of figuring out the hand raise mechanism,
I'll go over a couple more questions.
This one is also really good.
I have some thoughts here, but how far are we from having systems that are so fast and cheap
that charging for a token won't make sense anymore?
I think it's different because your GROK will probably
likely remain in that world for a little bit longer.
But yeah, I'm curious.
I think it's going to be a while until that happens because the cheaper and cheaper that
the tokens get and the faster and faster that the tokens get, the more you're going to throw at
every single agent or problem.
But I do think that the cost is going to go down to close to negligible levels within
two to three years.
But it also depends on like very hardware specific things because that's like the hardware
iteration speed is kind of like the bottleneck here.
The chips need to be efficient enough for it to be for like the cost to go down.
That's what we're working on with like a V2 chip.
Trying to just increase the throughput so much that cost just hits the floor.
Yeah, I think the other thing to call out really two things is once these costs go down to zero,
again, you can kind of reinvest the latency and reinvest the budget.
I just say, well, I want to generate like 10 answers and take the mean or something like that.
Exactly.
I think the thing that might not be on the inference businesses but on the application later
is I've seen a lot of companies now price on success.
So for example, Sierra, they use Chat Boss to do customer service.
And what they do is they don't charge you whether or not the conversation is long or short.
They charge you when the ticket is closed.
And I think Sierra says, we take a dollar every time we answer one support ticket
and it is closed and the customer is happy.
And that's actually really exciting because what it means is if they do get all these savings,
they don't make less money because they're not going any faster.
And so they use a company like Grok and say, you know what, we're going to do way more complex
things because all I'm trying to do is close this ticket to get that return.
And how much things cost in the interim, those are things that we can optimize for.
And so I think once companies start thinking about pricing on
outcome, pricing for the results of the work done and rather than the work itself, I think
it's going to be sort of like another explosion of what is possible in terms of the businesses
that we people operate.
I think we're getting pretty close now.
If I just do like multi-agent simulations and they're twice as cheap, I'll just do four times
more because my goal is to get that dollar to close that ticket.
And as long as it's affordable, it's affordable.
Yeah.
Manoj, do you want to ask a question?
Yeah, for sure.
First of all, thanks, guys.
Great content.
Learned a lot.
I just had a question on all these evals that we're talking about are very quantifiable.
But take the trip planner example.
What about the subjective criteria and how do you evaluate that in agentic systems?
How good is the trip planner?
What are the evals that you would use for that when there are multiple steps?
And then related to that, you could have something where you optimize for local
steps, but the global might change.
You know what I mean by that is the flight might come in much later or like the hotel booking
might be, you might miss a museum trip because the flight is coming too late
because you're optimizing each or something.
So the subjective criteria and also quantitative criteria that might not
meet the goal of what you do normally.
So I was just wondering, how do you evaluate subjective criteria and then
local versus maximum in agentic systems?
I think that makes a lot of sense.
I think the most important thing is you need to look at it on every layer of the stack.
Right?
So first of all, you can get direct user feedback on your agent and whether it's
actually performing the way that you'd like it to.
The way if you've seen in like chat, they have like the thumbs up and thumbs down button.
That's the way you can do it.
But when you're looking at
reproduction, yeah, sorry.
I was thinking more about before it goes out live, maybe you don't have a program or whatever,
but I was just trying to figure out what are the best practices you've seen, especially with
subjective criteria.
Let's look at the
the quantifier.
I'm happy to chime in as well afterwards.
Sorry?
I'm happy to chime in afterwards as well.
Yeah.
I think first of all, you're going to need to figure out what model is specific,
like best for like the specific use cases, like the specific steps within the agent so that you can
for that, you'd probably try to build your own evals.
Or first of all, what the trip planner's like original goal is, and then what the goal is
for each step, like maybe a specific bespoke eval for like finding the best flights given the specific
piece of data.
And then, yeah, honestly, it's very much just building subjective, very bespoke evals for your
for your specific use case.
I think Jason would be able to explain this a little better than I am.
But yeah, I think the real call out here is that you just can't do that much reproduction.
Like you can, you know, there have been companies where they will do and do simulations where
they'll say, you know what, we're going to make like 45 different personas, or we're going to
have a rider come in and set up all these sort of hypothetical situations, and then run evals on
that.
But ultimately, you at some level, what you need to release is you need to release a simpler
version of that product and start getting real traffic, because the long tail of failure modes
are things that are very hard to predict.
So that's one thing.
Once you do that, then once you start enumerating these failure modes, what you end up doing in
practice, you either sort of write some kind of LLM as a judge, you sort of make sure that they
are aligned with human preferences on whether the quality is good or bad.
So for example, you know, given a conversation history that happened, can I predict the user
frustration or how often has the user requested different results?
How often has the LLM called the tool incorrectly?
And you can basically do this process of taking the conversation, extracting structured data out of
those conversations, and then doing the data analysis.
And it's often going to be the case where you kind of have these plots of, you know, our
conversations that are very long, do they result in more revenue or less revenue?
You know, is the number of terms predictive of like customer satisfaction?
How often are we predicting frustration or assistant errors?
And really what we try to do is we try to sort of suppress that curve as much as possible.
But that's usually generally how things have worked in practice.
It's hard to sort of enumerate these failure modes all ahead of time, just because people
tend to be really weird when they're talking to these systems and testing the limits of what
these systems can do.
Do you have a follow up?
One quick follow up.
Is there any resource for, you know, best practices for subjective criteria or is there
a website that, you know, people contribute?
Because, you know, these are like the things you mentioned out here, you know, it takes a
long time to figure these things out.
And I was just wondering if there's a resource that you guys have come across or if there's
a site where these are kind of cataloged that that might be an inspiration, if nothing else.
A lot of it has been tried.
I actually have documented as much as I can in like my own blog and in some of the cohort
stuff that I do, but a lot of it has been kind of locked away because they're so specific,
right?
Because if you work for a consumer application, you kind of want to optimize for time spent,
right?
Like one of the things I'm working on with this, like call voice AIs, like actually,
turns out voice AIs, they're really good at doing upsells and like,
so we should start building out like upsell workflows.
Well, a lot of this comes down to the fact that my goal is to release a product as quickly
as possible, do data analysis over the conversations that are happening, and then prioritize what's
going on, right?
Like we talked about this issue where like, you know, car bookings could be cheaper and
the flight arrives.
Well, really what I would do is I would do my data analysis in the call history and go,
well, this is a 5% problem.
Right now, we should just add some prompts that say like, we don't handle this case.
But if it turns out it's a 70% problem, maybe the solution is actually just changing the
set of tools that we use, right?
Maybe we have a single endpoint that returns flight details and call bookings at the same
time, and then we can like solve some parts of that system in code.
But a lot of it is around prioritization as the research and the product develops,
and then we can kind of like make decisions post hoc.
It's really, really hard to predict these things ahead of time.
Yeah.
Thank you.
No worries.
Mate, Nate?
I think it's Mate.
We'll see.
Mate.
Mate.
Oh, sorry.
Mate.
Mate.
Mate.
Yes.
Mate.
So my question is...
No, no worries.
I actually, yeah.
So my question is around, like I guess most people use larger LMS for most of the tasks.
I've read maybe last year more about these surrogates where you would use a large model
to trade a small model.
Some of these tasks might be more like, maybe you're using an LLM for parsing parameters
from an API or whatever, and you could actually use like a text classifier or even a regular...
Would you go into that level of trying to optimize latency?
And then sometimes, because maybe you can get away with like,
I don't know, fine tuning a BERT or just a smaller model for a narrow use case.
Is that still a thing worth looking into or not?
I think it definitely is.
You want if I take this on?
Yeah.
Oh, go for it.
I definitely have some thoughts on this because I think a lot of the consulting work I've done
is sort of around this, a team comes up to me and says, which model should we use?
Or should we use this embedding model or that embedding model?
And ultimately, it's going to be the case that we're not really optimizing for latency.
We're optimizing for some high level business objective and we have a budget.
The real question is, how do we spend this budget?
And latency is one way of doing it.
But if we trained our own model, now we're thinking, well, now we've invest our time
building out these new models.
Maybe when will the next model come out?
Is that going to be an issue?
You know, if we can't host these models on a inference server, do we now own all of the
inference?
Do we now have to hire someone who's finding CUDA errors and reading the VLLM docs and
understanding how to optimize GP utilization?
And if we do train this model, what performance improvement is worth this other investment?
Because if you did SFT and your model is 4% better, I might tell you
maybe this is not worth it because you're going to dedicate a whole engineer to fine
tuning and doing inference.
But I think if we wait three months, the next model is going to come out.
It's going to be a lot better.
So I really think about it in terms of having this portfolio of budget to allocate.
And it's really going to be a question of not just is it worth making it faster, but
is the performance improvement worth the latency improvement, worth the maintenance cost,
worth the inference cost and stuff like that?
And so that's kind of like how I try to think about that kind of question.
But there have been times where we fine tune and vetting models and we get 20%
improvement.
It's like, oh my God, we have to do this.
It's also like a question of iterative improvement, right?
As long as you're able to ship an MVP, you can always work on optimizations
like on each layer later on.
So it doesn't have to be like a one and done sort of thing.
Yeah, maybe just a quick follow up on that.
I totally take that point.
If your goal is to develop an app and that's where you spend your time, but then
if you're developing a platform where you want other people to develop their rag apps
and everyone is using the biggest model for each of their tasks,
there it can be actually potentially a big save because what I see many times, at least
agents in a company is like everyone is calling the biggest one for everything.
And then they do get like, you know, 30 seconds.
So at pretty long latencies and it is a problem.
Yeah, I think if you're building a platform, I'd be curious, like, what are the actual
KPIs?
Right.
Are we worried that people are going to turn off the platform?
Is it the case that, you know, they're paying $20 a month and it's costing us $16 an API
cost and maybe I want to improve margin?
Yeah, I can imagine there's a lot of different and obstituting there.
Yeah, thanks.
Gentlemen, Jason, just a sec, Arush, will you please put the latency slides back up
for just a few minutes?
Thanks.
Thanks so much.
This is a great question because I think about this all the time.
Have your evals changed in interesting ways beyond being able to do more evals because
Grok is so much faster?
Absolutely.
Like, Grok's systems can just handle, it can just like turn through so many tokens so
quickly and having basically unrestricted access to just screwing around with them has
been like, I've been able to like iterate on my evals so much more quickly when I can
run an entire MMLU run, which is like 14,000 questions in like 30 seconds.
So yeah, I've been able to like stretch like the sort of evals that I run and the sort
of evals that I build a lot just based off of, based off of fast inference because the
iteration speed is also just so much higher for things like this.
Yeah, I think they also benefit in terms of sort of getting any kind of statistical power.
You know, I think if I was to run my evals using 3.0 and with a lazy plus 0.3 with a lazy
prompt, you know, maybe I can only test a hundred things.
And so it's a visualization I can make because it has very wide error bars.
And it's like, well, I can't get into a thousand things because one, it's going to cost me
$800 every time I run this and every time I run this is going to take 40 minutes.
Right.
And so I don't feel good about changing three things in a prompt or changing two things
in a system and then rerunning these things isn't going to cost me too much time.
But with Grok, it is the case.
Well, now I can just test 5,000 things and I have really good confidence whether or not
things are improving.
I feel really good about making smaller changes and having things run very quickly.
I think it has really changed the way we do and think about experimentation and experimentation
with a lot of velocity.
Yeah, definitely.
I'm off.
Like an, oh, an eval run.
No, no, please, please, please finish, Arush.
Yep.
An eval run on OpenAI's O1 can cost thousands of dollars and on, let's say, Lamaform Maverick
on Grok, it can cost like two bucks.
It's like a huge difference of being able to iterate on your own product and on your
own evals, cost and latency-wise.
I feel the follow-up to that one.
Are there interesting user experiences that you are seeing?
What's the most interesting user experience beyond just getting a response within sixth
tenth of a second?
Just simply because you can do so much more within the budget, just like Jason described.
I have a second.
I can do so many things.
What's the most interesting user experience, maybe qualitatively different, that you've
seen compared to what regular or bigger models can do?
I think a big one is real-time intelligent co-pilots.
I'm sure if you've seen things like Meta's Ray-Ban glasses, where they have that thing
where you can say, hey Meta, and you can ask it about what's going on around you.
A big issue that they have is that they try to run a lot of their stuff on-device, and
that leads to basically terrible quality when it comes to actually answering questions.
And if they have to answer a more detailed or in-depth question, they're looking at a
screen and they're like, what does this chart mean?
They have to call out to an API, let's say something like Meta's internal llama API,
and it'll take a few seconds for the user to get their response back.
But when you're using something like Grok, the user can get a response back within half
a second, and that allows them to just have a much better user experience, and you can
have real-time updating things that every time a user is in front of...
If you have a heads-up display, you can have a live update of what's happening around you
or behind you by just continuously pulling Grok's API with data from cameras and what's
happening around you.
I'll also add one thing that I'm really excited about is if code assistance can run on something
as fast as Grok, primarily because I think at some point, the inference to update your
code might be as fast as the website building or the app recompiling, and I think that's
going to also dramatically change the ergonomics of building applications.
I would love a world where I just have a website, it captures the voice, and I just say,
okay, I can move that a little bit to the left, and it'll just move because the code
has been edited.
I have RSI, so I can't code that much, so I think those experiences are really exciting.
I think a lot of it is the real-time conversations.
That's a good question.
Yeah, this might be more of a question for you, Jason, but latency obviously is a potentially
important metric, as we talked about for certain use cases right now.
Developers are probably willing to wait a little bit longer, especially since they have ways
of launching multiple agentic flows at once and stuff like that, but I'm wondering, for
those cases more out to consumers, there's obviously other metrics, evals, that potentially
come before, I guess, in your experience, when has latency come in the eval, be folded
in as part of your eval toolset?
When does that come into play realistically?
I don't really think of it internally.
I feel like evals are now overloaded.
Usually how I think about these production systems is they have a bunch of plots and
visualizations, and there's a certain shape of the curve I want to have.
The question is, does the time spent on this application result in more churn or less churn?
Is it the case that if your conversations take longer, people are more unsatisfied?
If that's the case, then latency is really important, but maybe it's okay.
The other thing is how much time do people spend per session?
Is it the case that people are getting used to kicking jobs off, or am I staring at the
screen?
The way that we perceive latency in Devon is very different than the way that we perceive
latency in Cloud Code versus even in Cursor.
There's a lot of product aspects at play.
I usually think about is it affecting churn?
Is it affecting time spent?
Is time spent predictive of revenue?
Maybe that's too business-focused, but that's generally how I think about these kinds of
things.
Really what I'm looking at are not evals where I have conversations that are passing and
failing.
I'm looking at session time versus churn rates.
There are people who are taking too long, just more unhappy, or they're even happier.
Those are the things that really matter to me, especially in these cases where agents
are doing things like sales.
Latency really, really, really matters.
But if it was a call transcript follow-up, maybe it doesn't matter as much.
I like booking systems, for example.
I'm used to having someone take an afternoon to book an entire trip.
It's okay that maybe the AI takes 30 seconds.
There's a sweet spot per application for every kind of consumer app.
It sounds like it's important for PMs to potentially define that metric and measure that over
time in production.
It's effects on other more important metrics.
These are all inputs to predict satisfaction, churn, revenue.
Sometimes it doesn't matter.
I think we have four minutes, which is pretty solid.
We have another talk coming up in maybe 10 minutes from now.
I will make sure we get everyone some time to take a break, get some water, go to the
bathroom.
I mean, thank you, Arush.
I feel like one of the big things I'm taking away is really thinking about this.
How do we reinvest that latency back in the system?
That's been a pretty good insight upon bringing that back to everyone else in the cohort.
I guess before we go, Arush, is there a question you wish we asked?
I think most of the questions are actually quite good.
Yeah, I think honestly, you guys asked a lot of great questions.
Thank you, Jason, so much for setting this up and being a great co-host.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
I appreciate your time.
I hope I'll see you in Palo Alto.
All right.
Awesome.
Take care, everyone.
We'll be back in like 10 minutes.
Bye.
