Yeah, everyone.
Hello.
I think it's good morning for most of you.
Did we start three minutes after as a, as this tradition?
I think we should.
And also like, we don't want people to, everyone joins late in general.
So we don't want people to miss out the beginning of this, but I was wondering
that whether the people who are joining this call have been on few enough of the
North American calls live so as to not even realize that's our tradition.
That's fair.
Give me one second.
I'm just grabbing water.
Yeah.
So how many of you guys have been joining any of the other sessions in real time?
We're live.
Tried once and gave up.
I couldn't think if it's the middle of the night for me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Same.
It's like 3 AM.
It's like, but I, and she watched the recording.
I haven't done for this week though.
It's just so while we're waiting overall, do you feel like the course has still
been worthwhile given that you have been watching recordings or if someone that
socially, but in the same time zone asked whether to join, would you have said that
it's actually not worth it given the time zone problems?
I think the time zone is not an issue for me.
I mean, I've been able to watch the recordings and get a fair bit of value out of it.
Also the Slack channels are good.
Get some random bits of knowledge every now and then.
I have not been able to join the live session.
So this is my first time seeing what the live thing has to offer.
And if this is useful, then something in a friendly time zone would be better.
But otherwise I think the recordings and the Slack do well even async.
Yeah.
We are planning to repeat this weekly.
This week we're going to do just Q and A and then I'll probably just set it up as
a poll in the, I think it's called APAC Slack channel and I'll just do a poll of
Do you guys want for next week to do this mix like we've been doing in the office
hours that we have during the U S day where you do half of it as breakout breakout
session and half as Q and A or do you want to have all Q and A like we're going
to do this week, but I'll put that in Slack and then we can use that to decide
what we do for future weeks.
Yeah.
Should we or after we're a minute late?
I think everyone's in, I think I counted 12 on the Slack and there's 12 in the
actually, I mean, just, we have two more actually.
So it's 10 and 12.
Yeah.
I mean, let's jump in.
I think has anyone watched the videos for this week already, or has it mostly just
been a week one and week two, maybe a thumbs up or a cool,
or this week, I think.
Yeah.
Three weeks.
Makes sense.
Watch the lectures, all the lectures, everything up until the lecture for this
week and including the lecture.
Cool.
Yeah.
It sounds like most of you have seen some of the conversations around just
making sure we have good recall metrics, allowing ourselves to use synthetic data
to generate these evaluations.
And then also once we start introducing production data, being able to figure
how we can segment and classify some of these topics in order to better prioritize.
And so, yeah, I would love to, maybe we can just use the raise hand mechanism
in zoom and then we can start from there.
If anyone has any questions that they want to talk about, I
could just clarify anything.
Yeah.
Since maybe I can go first, no one has raised their hands.
Yeah.
Actually it's definitely very helpful because my previous role, we started
building some stuff like I used to work for a graph render.
So we kind of built like early stages of graph rack, like two years ago, but we
kind of never thought about like, how do you do evaluation and everything?
Like at one point we had to like create like, even though there's an LLM
powering things, but generation of the cipher queries, but it was like.
For this particular intent, we will have a API and everything.
So with all the one thing over the last three weeks, what I've learned is very
helpful to like how we could do it now.
But what, one of the things I'm working on now is actually building more of a
generic, like chat interface, Q and A system for, for students and researchers
to work with, like any kind of documents.
So like I was, because from, from that perspective, there's no way like I can
generate questions across different domains.
They might be working on different things because like, now I started off
with just working with PDFs and word docs.
I'm also kind of transitioning into what do you say, like PowerPoints and
few other kinds of multimedia where they can upload and work with.
So like first question on that is like, is there a way, like I, I can think of
putting up a kind of a process where I can evaluate like different domains and
because my Q and A system is going to be rag is going to be very generic.
Yeah.
Like, so it's like, how, how do you see this like at scale and we want to
kind of like optimize over a period of time, what will be kind of an approach
I can consider that's the first question.
Second one.
Yeah.
I'll think about it.
I've completely forgot.
Yeah.
Let's do the first one first.
Yeah.
I imagine there's quite a bit here.
So obviously we can still think about potentially using language
models to generate synthetic data.
Right?
We can say, given a PowerPoint, what are some questions this PowerPoint answers?
We don't even know if by default that the text in the PowerPoint is enough
to retrieve that, that single asset.
Right.
And so I think one of the big challenges is like, we might assume
that synthetic data is too easy, but that's usually not the case.
Right.
On top of that, what we might find is maybe right now, because we don't have
any domain expertise, we can't really do the segmentation on sort of the types
of questions people ask, but we will still be able to evaluate, for example,
the, our ability to recall the right assets based off of the file type.
Right.
When I was at Zapier, we had integrations for Sheets.
We had integrations for Notion pages.
We had a bunch of different notes apps.
And what we found was just anytime the answer was supposed to be found
on the sheet, we were struggling.
And that's because they had just embedded the text in the sheet.
And so what we did was we built out these summary index where we said,
okay, given this sheet, give me like a paragraph description of what the data
looks like, and instead of returning the sheet itself, return the summary and
have that summary point to the sheet.
And then immediately we went from 20% recall to 60% recall.
It was still very hard.
Right.
And so if there's many different assets like that, it's worth considering
just slicing up those and going, okay, we started allowing people to upload
Google Sheets on top of just regular PDFs, but it's not doing very well.
And we really need to invest the effort into figuring out what we can do about that.
That would be like a single example, but generally it's still pretty important
to come up with some like the synthetic data.
Uh, one story I talked about with, with that was, oh, I just forgot it right away.
Oh no, it's late for me now.
Was yes, with a GitHub issues where we use Paul Graham essays and synthetic
data got us 97% recall and like, great, this is super easy.
Let's try something harder.
And then it was just GitHub issues.
We just realized we couldn't do anything.
And so that synthetic data will still help you understand that.
Cause maybe again, people are asking questions about what page is that slide
on and you realize like, oh, we do not have, we do not have the ability to
like map what pages are happening or maybe start asking about the comments
on the slides, like, oh, we didn't, we don't have the ability to do that either.
Now let's go figure out what to invest in.
Yeah.
So I give you a glimpse of sort of why maybe it's still okay.
And maybe thinking about like the file extension as the first thing we
want, might want to segment across.
Yeah.
Like one, one of the early thoughts, because like, apart from text, like I
was, I still hadn't, didn't have any view on how to work with tables, but
yesterday the week three session, I got like a really good glimpse thanks to you
and Dan on the markdown approach, but for images, like I was thinking of
extracting and like just creating summaries, but I think that's what
the approach you propose.
So now at least in my, in my head, how I'm designing this is like, I have all
my wrong information that I get from the users, but then I create an intermediary
layer, which I'm going to use as a router mechanism, like with all
potentially like summaries and stuff.
So that will guide, guide my system retriever to figure out where to go and
fetch the right information rather than trying to look at the source information
with true vectors, with index vectors.
Oh yeah.
Thanks.
Like that's that I'll pass and I'll pass it on to someone else.
Thank you.
So just to make sure I understand it, it sounds like you're building a really
horizontal or broadly useful platform.
Some of the things that immediately come to mind for me would be if you're
totally stumped or you're totally blocked by not having a set of PowerPoints
that you can even experiment with, I would try and I would start by thinking
about, I think, I, yeah, so I don't remember the details.
I think PowerPoint now is used to be some binary format, but I think now is
Jason or Yama, you might be able to synthetically create a bunch of PowerPoints,
but even easier than that would be to go and find some purpose of PowerPoints on
some topic that you can experiment with.
It's not perfect because it's all going to be from one domain, but
at least the domain that I'm familiar with that I know there's a bunch of
public PowerPoints would be pitch decks for investors.
So you go out, get a corpus of those, and now you can do this process.
It's not great because it's all from one domain that you want to be cross-domain,
but it's better to have one domain than zero domains.
And then on figuring out what are the things we want to extract, you have
the additional challenge of an extra layer of indirection here since you don't
know what the use cases will be.
I think that you could, for a given client, either have something in the UI
where you say, describe to me the type of data that you're going to put in here.
And you ask an LLM, what are the things that we're going to want to
extract from this data?
And maybe you can build that capability with that extra sort of layer in there
to figure out what you want to extract in the LLM determines that.
Or you could have it observe the data, but you may want to extract different
information for different clients.
And if you can either look at their data or have the user tell you what problem
they're working on, that might help you build out a programmatic pre-processing
pipeline, even without knowing much about what you're pre-processing.
Yeah, that's nice because now I can create like, dynamically
create metadata and pass it as options for me to filter, ask the user to start
asking questions, like once I get more information on the intent or purpose
of working with these documents.
Yeah.
It does, it does violate what I think Jason's first rule is, which is look at
the data, we're not going to look at the data, we're not even going to know what
the data is and we're just going to have an LLM look at the data.
Yeah.
It's going to be extra challenging, but that's what I, those are the
things that come to mind for me.
Like, sorry to take up much time, but then like the challenge we had like two
years ago with this oil and gas company is like, they have 50 years worth of
legacy information, like from handwritten notes to everything, like they have tons
and tons of that, and the main reason they even invested into using like LLMs
and open, like when with open AI and everything at that point in time was
they don't have the manual labor to like, to be able to first thing classify,
extract, and also they wanted to label information with it's like gold standard
like silver and some stuff they want to fully automate it because of like 50
years worth of legacy information.
So that's, that's, that's, that's the kind of like typical clients.
Like when I engaged them, this is kind of like the problems they have.
Like this one, when the highlight is always look at the data.
Yes.
I would love to look at data.
I was like tabularized quickly aggregate.
You have certain forms of summaries you can look at and figure out this.
Okay.
This, this, this is not big outlier.
There's something like statistically you can figure out what to avoid,
what to like look for, but when it comes to texts and documents like, like this,
it's, it's still so hard if you have so much volumes of information to go to.
That's why it's like very generic and hopefully some we get better at it.
Yeah.
But thank you.
That's helpful.
All right.
Let's jump to, okay.
I don't know if I can pronounce your name correctly.
Vibe.
Yeah, it's fine.
So we have already have a production application.
And application is like, and we were, we launched it like four months back.
And we have consistent users, but what we have been struggling with
is building across with the users.
So the application works decently, but we are basically a customer analytics,
customer feedback analytics platform.
And people can come and connect their sender support or other channels
where they're getting feedback.
And then we provide them like actionable insights on top of it.
Plus a chat now with a chat interface.
We have a taxonomy that we build, but with the taxonomy, it's
always like lagging between.
So if they have like some recent issues that are coming in, the
refresh of the taxonomy might take some time.
So in those cases, what ends up happening is we try to do like a rack system
where in we fetch like some key records and then put it into an area and try to
provide some insights and those insights are decent, but the problem we see is
there is those are not quantifiable.
So you cannot tell them, okay, this has happened this many times because we
have a limited context window.
We cannot on the black computer, how many people have said this.
So how do we ensure that we can continue to maintain that trust with the customer
while still being able to solve this problem in a systematic manner, wherein
we are able to actually serve this to them and we haven't computed this
insight right now to be able to get this insight to you within a few minutes or
in a couple of minutes.
I feel like one of the constraints here really is the latency.
I think I've done some social media analysis tools and usually it's been the
case where you upload some data, you tell us some configuration, and then we say,
great, we'll email you once we have more like holistic results.
Right.
The other thing is another thing, which is hard is like, how can we
down-sample that data?
And then, so the first question is like, are we able to down-sample that data and
report that in some productive way where we said, okay, if I can only afford five
minutes and I know the latency of a single compute, can I figure out how much
data I can afford to process given this constraint?
And then when I give the results, I might be able to say, here's the
summary of my results.
And then here are the examples that led to this summary in some kind of citation
manner, and we can say, Hey, if you have five minutes, we can do a 0.5% sample.
If you have 50 minutes, it's going to be more comprehensive.
That's like the most naive thought I have.
Currently, what ends up happening is the iteration is happening live.
So we connect to their sources and we directly continue testing.
So now their expectation is whenever they come in and ask a question, we should have
the insights already already, but we might not have them ready because you can never
be a hundred percent accurate in terms of what you extract.
You extract, like say something that you find is useful for the customer, but the
customer might be, okay, this information is missing.
So that is available on the end of the road feedback.
So that is the big challenge right now.
Like the expectation is even within 20 seconds or 30 seconds, you'll get the insight
that you're looking for.
And the question they can ask is they're product managers.
So they have very complicated questions, which can be very deep analysis, but they
want very good latency.
They want us to match publicity.
So what ends up being like at stake for these product managers?
Like, so one of the things that you want to build trust, like what happens to them
if the trust is broken, like versus.
Yeah.
So they start to feel like the platform itself is not providing enough value.
So we have like, Sigma is a customer and one of their top executives came to the
platform, just tried out the chat interface for a couple of minutes, but it's not doing
a good job.
And now the contract itself is at risk because of the fact that that executive
failed, he's not delivering enough value.
So why are we paying for this?
So these kinds of situations end up happening, even though we have like a
robust other reporting suit that consists of dashboards and other things that do
provide value to the customers.
But since that is the landing page and that is where they first come in, their
expectation, it's, it should answer all my questions out of the box, even though
you haven't really told it how to answer them.
And the range of questions can be very broad to very, very specific.
So we try to do extra SQL and then try to filter the domain and curate a set of
records and then try to answer using that.
But still that might not hit the market.
So how do we ensure that we set the right expectations?
Yeah.
I mean, yeah, I don't know if I can give very specific advice, but like, when you
say this, the two avenues that I would potentially explore is like, are there
components in the UI that can help expectations?
Right.
For example, just like, if we show the kinds of questions that we want you to ask,
can we drive them in a direction that makes sense?
Can we try to like propose questions that we can't answer?
The second thing might be a little more of like a product design decision where
if I was put on this project, like basically what I would try to do is, okay, can I
detect the difference between an easy and a hard question?
And when it is a hard question, instead of asking the language one to do it, can I
point them somewhere else and like make it less of my problem?
Right.
It's like, oh, you are asking some complex question that is like a financial
issue, like here are products that we could recommend, contact the sales team
and understand some other solutions.
Because I think what ends up happening is you're kind of making the intern, the
representative to some executive and really the answer, like, what you really
want to tell the intern is like, okay, if you don't understand, like, do not try to
answer some and answer the question, do not like mess up the sale.
There are people to contact, et cetera, et cetera.
And so maybe one other attempt is really just understanding, like, what is the
category of questions we don't do well and how can we de-risk that with additional
UI or triage, especially if this is part of the demo that we want to show an
executive to sort of potentially make a sale.
It's probably a little bit of a cop out, but usually when I run into these issues,
I just imagine myself thinking, okay, this, this LLM system is kind of the
intern, what kind of support structure have I provided?
And then you realize like, I would never let the intern speak to the
executive and without me present or without having some kind of script that
says, Hey, like you can just show them a different landing page.
You should just tell them to contact sales and speak to my manager.
And that's kind of like the, how you de-risk some of this probabilistic software.
Yeah.
Might not be the best answer, but I think that that's, if I was to answer on the spot,
that's kind of the direction I would explore next.
Yeah.
It makes sense.
Also, like we cannot make it to be a hundred percent accurate.
We cannot deliver on everything that they're expecting.
So we don't have to set expectations if you're not satisfied.
This is some other reason which you can still go ahead and serve the request.
Yeah.
And I think it's good to say, and maybe the answer too is just come back and say,
Hey, maybe the question that the executive answer is not the same kind of question.
Like the users of the software, if we bought it, would be asking.
And so, so another question to think about is that if the success rate of this
product is 60%, is it that every single question that we ask has a 60% chance of
success or is there some segment that we actually do exceptionally well on and
one second that we can't do well on and can we predict that and take an action?
Right.
Maybe that's like L I'm classifying.
Maybe that's some kind of like classical model, but I think, I think that just
like saying no is a very powerful feature.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Not the best answer, but yeah, let's definitely chat on Slack and maybe we can
bring some, some, some other ideas.
I've worked on a project and this might be too restrictive for you, but we
basically had instead of real text to SQL, we had a library of 150 or so
templates of SQL queries.
And then because of templates, we will take the question.
We'll use retrieval to semantic retrieval to figure out which template is
closest to it, and then there are fields that can get, they can get dropped in.
And now for the questions that don't closely match any of, if a question
doesn't match anything in our database, we have a sense because of the distance
measure and as a result, you have a way of making sure that you don't do anything
too crazy and if a distance measure is sufficiently far, I guess we do two, we
do two things, one of the distance measures really far, we just say, sorry,
we don't know, but then the other part is that whatever they type in, we're
actually going to tell them here's the template that's being used and here's the
fields that are being dropped in so that we can, we can give them a concrete
guarantee of, it might not match your question, but we can tell you what we're
answering.
Yeah, makes sense.
So for our text to SQL, we have a slightly different approach there and what we do
was we take the, so we tried the library, but that didn't work for us too well
because questions were too complicated.
So what we then ended up doing was breaking it down into an AST, which basically
had like some phrases or filters and then the connection between those phrases.
And that has worked quite nicely for us.
Then the composition is quite nice.
We are able to like do it 95% of the times, but then the extraction itself is
like at 70 to 80% we are trying to bring that up as well.
So that has worked well for us, but the planning itself is like very hard for us.
So given a question, how do you figure out you, what are the steps that need to
be taken that has been the most challenging piece for us to solve and agents are not
really very deterministic in nature.
They can do something very good sometimes and then mess it up again.
So that piece has been the biggest challenge.
And then the other pieces haven't extracted themselves.
Then how do we ensure we keep the trust?
So those are the two critical pillars.
They're still working on trying to solve it.
I see.
Yeah, that makes sense.
I think a part of it is just like, if you're able to say no, I feel more confident
in your ability to know when you can say yes.
So that's the direct answer.
Yeah.
Matthew, do you want to shoot?
Yeah.
I think there was another, is there, there was another hand raised or am I the only
one that said, okay, I think I did it after.
Yeah.
I think I see the ordering.
I think it was like, Oh, okay.
Go ahead.
Okay.
So I also have two questions, but one of them is shorter and I'll start with that.
So we have users who drop in documents and when they do that, we basically convert
them to markdown right away and we chunk them, but our chunking is a very.
Lazy chunking right now.
So we just do like sections.
We actually put it into an AST, but then we do sections and then a section
and whatever content is below it.
And we've conflated those chunks with, we use them as UI display and we've
conflated that with our vector search as well.
And I'm just wondering what you have, like what your idea on strategies are to,
to kind of unify those two worlds where the UI display is a chunk of text that
when the user loads the app, it goes, boop, boop, boop and loads all the chunks.
So how do we kind of reconcile that world with the chunks that are made so that we
can do things like vector similarity search, which I imagine won't be as clean
or, or the same as a heading and then content and markdown.
We use, we use PG vectors to do vector similarity search right now.
So they're kind of all in the same place.
I don't think I understand what you think you're missing out on.
Is it the fact that some of these like header paragraph blocks are just too
large for the embeddings to be done well or?
Too short.
Like some of the headers are just like a little header, like just like a
single little piece of text and one chunk with header and then content could be very
long and there's no meaningful work we've put in into like actually doing chunking.
So that is it is facilitates vector similarity search.
I see.
I see.
Yeah.
I think if you watch the talk from ChromaDB on some of the experimentations, like
what, what I basically recommend was just making sure that we have some kind of
minimum token size as well, where you can just like greedily append data to this
chunk until it hits 600 tokens and then potentially either doing the sliding
window over it or doing something like the recursive text splitter where we say,
okay, now I have a sequence of chunks.
If I split in the middle, do I hit this like 600 to 800 token limit?
If I don't let's recursively split that again.
And really it's just a matter of having some kind of minimum chunk
size plus some overlap.
Unfortunately, I don't really have too many best practices there.
Like most of what we've done is just either using the recursive text
splitter or like my preference is just like 800 tokens with 50% overlap.
I find that if you use a mix of semantic search and full text search, like I've
never gotten like different results by changing from like 25% overlap to 50%
overlap is usually just the case that if it's like a, but less than a hundred
tokens, it tends to perform pretty poorly.
So if I do that process really well, would it be okay to have kind of two
different representations of these chunks?
One for UI display, which is more like similar to the actual markdown
chunking or, and one for just this vector search, and we have these two
bodies of slightly redundant data.
That way, when we do like vector similarity search to do inference, to
pass it as context to the AI, then we get chunks from this semantic search,
semantic chunking process or something.
And then when we can just display in the UI, the other chunks, is that appropriate
to have like two sets like that?
I think that makes sense, right?
If anything, like there could be some like smaller optimizations where we say,
okay, the, the embedding is just a pointer to some list of
chunks that are in a sequence.
One of the benefits of this as well is when you do citations, if you have sort
of like these UI based chunk IDs, you can cite very, very refined sections, right?
Like you can say like, oh, in what section did we talk about this?
Where's the answer to this question or answer this question and include these
like IDs, you're going to be able to like reference those chunks a very like precise way.
Yeah.
Like unless storage is an issue, I don't, I don't really foresee like a big issue
except for maybe like making sure that data is in sync.
Okay.
Graph databases are a good thing to use.
Like it'll really be very helpful because like very similar, like we had like
text documents split like map for application use as well as to do vector
search using graph database.
So we had the primary documents as a node and we just broke it down into
different structures, depending on either at a paragraph level or section level.
So depending on which search matched and you, we always knew like where to go back.
Where was the source document, which department belonged to it also helped
us with security and data governance as well.
So it's like graph might be a good, I know your PG Victor graph might be a
good place for you to start on this.
Thank you.
What was your second question?
Is this the appropriate place to ask for like advice on our whole pipeline?
Basically like how we're doing retrieval and maybe it's kind of long.
So maybe this is not the right place.
I mean, if anything, just like message me on Slack, like message us in the channel
and we can just like have a conversation if it's long, like a video, stuff like that.
Okay.
I'll do that.
Thank you.
That's good.
All right.
Azil.
So I got a couple of questions here.
So the first question is about hybrid retrieval.
Do you normally provide weightage for the various hybrid retrieval methods?
And if so, how do you decide before giving weightage to these individual methods?
Yeah.
So I tend to use like LanceDB and I don't think there's many, there's much control
in the weighting versus if you use something like Elasticsearch and like, like Vespa.
Like the, the bad answer really is I usually just have a set of evaluations.
And then usually what I, what I find is we just kind of treat them as hyper
parameters and then just run our evaluation suite.
A very specific example was in the construction company I worked with, we
just realized that a lot of the construction workers know the name of the document they
care about, and so they just included the title a lot and it was just a case of,
okay, we changed the title away for this category of queries and we were able to do
like 12% better recall as long as we remove the underscores from the, from the
file name.
And so a lot of the end of just being like by having that evaluation set, we can
figure out what the right weights are.
Sure.
And what about the individual methods?
Suppose if I'm doing a lexical search and then if I'm doing lexical retrieval
combined with say vector retrieval, do you normally provide weightage
among these retrieval methods?
The simplest thing that we've done is just using the Cohery Ranker as a final step.
Right.
Usually we can afford additional latency this way, mostly because otherwise we
have to work with like missing scores.
It's not always the case that a single document has both a cosine distance and a
lexical like a, like a BM-25 score.
Like we could train a separate re-ranker that just takes in two values that are
both nullable.
I think that's just like, I would rather just make the Cohery API call than like
have someone own like a two parameter model that learns the ranking because we
tend to not have that data.
Awesome.
Got it.
So I have one more question.
It's about information extraction.
So I'm extracting huge data from a huge corpus of text, unstructured data.
So how can I evaluate this information extraction process?
I know you can ask synthetic questions to evaluate whether the information is
there or not, but is there any other better, any other mechanism to do it?
I feel like that question is probably going to be a little bit more under
specified because it depends on like, are we extracting like, like one example,
like even with a summary, right?
The fact that whether it's abstractive or extractive could change how we do our
evaluation.
So I would probably say like, if you have a better example of what the schema looks
like, we can like start that conversation on Slack, mostly because a lot of it ends
up being like, like, what is the actual evaluation, right?
If I am doing structured extraction over transcripts and the thing I want to
extract is action items, then a very specific evaluation is like, did I
correctly extract all the action items and did I assign them to the right people?
That just becomes a dataset we build out versus like making sure we're parsing
like net revenue out of financial documents.
Again, that just becomes like the strings must like the numbers must equal, right?
We're not going to evaluate some like distance squared metric for some
assumed numerical value.
So it's going to be very specific to what exactly you're extracting.
Got it.
Got it.
Yeah, sure.
And what are your thoughts about evaluation tools like Ragaz and other libraries?
Yeah, generally they just tend to be too slow for the quick evaluation loop, right?
So again, if we do use like recall, each computation takes like a millisecond.
If we use Ragaz, each computation takes 10 seconds.
And now if I have a lot of data, like every test is 40 minutes, right?
And so if I have these small things where I want to change the title boost, now
changing the title boost will cost me like 40 minutes and $200 of open AI credits.
And I tend to feel like that just de-centrifies a lot of the engineers to
actually run these experiments.
Cause then you just do a standup one day and it's like, who's spent a thousand dollars?
Right.
I really prefer to like focus most on Recall.
The second thing is that oftentimes you're going to want your own
evaluation prompt, right?
It's very unlikely that we just sort of like import the factuality prompt and
like what I care about actually is factuality.
Again, if you think of the example of transcripts, is that, okay, I'm going to
produce an executive summary and a list of action items.
Well, they don't actually provide like my like action item accuracy recall evaluation.
And so I ended up having to just build my own prompts anyway, in which case I would
rather just, you know, use async gather and use them evaluation.
Mostly because also these libraries change every month that I have to upgrade
or like they're not doing like concurrency the right way.
And so those are the kinds of things that sort of bite me in the, bite me in the
ass every month or two.
Thank you.
Very helpful.
Yeah.
Bito.
Hey Jason.
Hey Dan.
First of all, like thanks so much for the course and getting a ton of value out of it.
I'm going through it really slowly.
So like I have been like super re-watching and doing lots of exercises
related to like the retrieval metrics.
So I'm the technical CEO of anycase.ai.
So we do rag over legal documents and I'm kind of looking for just intuition
because legal documents, they're quite long and a lot of relevant information
can be scattered across these documents.
So I was wondering if you had any experience with like multiple or
multi-level summarization.
So like one problem we have is right when you retrieve like the top K
chunks, sometimes like there's a relevant chunk, but there's some legal
definition that the distance between the query and that relevant chunk isn't a
very near.
So like my intuition is maybe we can create like summarizations over sub
documents or larger chunks of documents and add that to the rag system.
But I'm wondering if I'm going down a dead end and you have anything to share about that.
Yeah.
I'm, I'm very bullish on, on summarization.
The thing that ends up being tricky is making sure that we're somehow
quantifying the quality of that summary.
So we're kind of replacing one difficult problem with another, right?
Like in the context of like in the chain of density, sir, chain of density paper,
chain of summary paper, one of the things they were doing is like, okay, we're going
to fine tune a language model to summarize in such a way that we keep all the named
entities, right?
And so in the, so if, in this like 10 page document, there were 17 named entities,
when you summarize it, there's gotta be 17 named entities, right?
Like if my, if my transcript had a name, like Jason said this, my summary can't be
the speaker said this, right?
And so you just had to figure out like, what is the actual metric you're going to
use that captures that?
And then I don't have, I don't have an intuition.
Like, I don't know if it's just like clause density or something like that.
Cause that just might be evaluating like extractive summarization.
And the second thing again, is to make sure that when we do recall, this summary is
also like, is actually helping the recall.
Does that help like sort of maybe just like, we're really just trading one
problem for another in my mind, but I don't, I don't think I've worked in enough
a legal context to sort of give like a.
Right.
Maybe just like your consulting projects, right?
Has any of the systems been improved by adding like a bunch of summarization or
like a year you using it with tables, right?
And images, you just ask, you create questions for it.
It's been used in a context that's like way less high stakes in law.
We do a lot of like marketing.
And so one of the things we do is we say, okay, every time there's an
objection in a sales call, let's do rag and see if there's a document we could
recommend to the salesperson to overcome the objection.
And if we have bad inventory and we don't have a document, we want to generate
documents and then we'll just use those in the future, right?
So we're kind of doing this like on the fly rather than sort of doing the
summarization just as we ingest data.
That's like one, one, one example of how we've been using summarization.
Right.
It's like ad hoc, creating more context.
Yeah.
Like, do you have a specific example of like what, like specific example of
text jumps that like are not working that you think could be working with a
summarization?
Yeah.
I think mostly related to like definitions.
I can't think of a good one on top of my head, but let's say there's this one
section that says, oh, the penalty for this specific kind of murder is this.
Right.
And there are like circumstances there that have legal definitions that are not
close to like query, like the user asks for, tell me all you know about this,
um, this crime.
So it's kind of like one hop away from that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I guess I have not done something that I would say is like production level.
One of the things I had an experiment on, which I doubt will work reliably.
Let me see if I can find it is effectively trying to extract entities out of
documents and then defining edges across entities.
Yeah.
Uh, let me see.
Oh, sweet.
I actually just called it a legal entity extraction.
This basically works, but it's not like a production quality system.
But so I'll kind of give like a quick overview where I have like properties,
entities with dependencies.
And then the hypothetical example I created was the agreement is made on this date.
And then the initial payment will be seven days after the signed date, which is
obviously like very far away from the document here.
And then, yeah, like the final payment will be due like 45 days after the signed
day, but the signed day was mentioned somewhere else.
And by defining this graph, you can kind of extract some notion of structure,
right?
Well, where I think, yeah, the delivery date is like 30 days after the
agreement date, the agreement date is this.
But we're still just kind of replacing one problem with another.
So I think, I think I haven't confirmed that if this problem is actually easier
than the initial problem, but this is to say that I think there is some hope and
some possibility that we can be extracting some of this information out.
Gotcha.
Thanks for that.
Could I get the link?
I didn't quite see the URL there.
No problem.
I'll just send this on Zoom.
Yeah.
I think the challenge is like, if you start using a graph, now you start, you just
start thinking like, okay, like what is the graph structure?
What are the types of entities when I do queries?
Like how much do I have to resolve?
Yeah.
It was just unclear that if we replace one problem with another, the second
problem is easier.
That's kind of the, exactly more prompts.
Yeah.
I don't know if that fully answered your question just because I
think that that context is hard.
Even, even like one problem I know that was happening with a, with a buddy of
mine was they were very sensitive to low precision, so not even just finding
the right references, but just if you have just a mess of clauses, the language
model is extremely confused.
Right.
And so I think there's a ton of things that are going on there that might be,
it might be an issue, but you could imagine, it says if you do build up this
graph for any clause that is included, traverse two edges as code and just make
sure we include that as well.
Nothing.
Is your hand still raised?
Or did you have another question?
Sorry.
Is that, I think it's Matthew.
Thanks.
Thanks so much.
No, no other question for me.
Sorry.
Oh, thank you.
There was a question from Shubham in the chat.
Have we experienced in specialized invited models for tabular data?
This is interesting.
I mean, let me just take a look at this.
I, I do look a lot into specialized models, but I've not looked at one that's
specifically for tabular data.
Okay.
Wait.
So that I will say that I believe that there exists specialized inviting models
that can perform better on tabular data.
But I think that would also suggest that you might live in a world where you have
a single index that is tabular data.
I don't know how you might think about wanting to, to mix that, but yeah, I
have not experienced, I don't have any experience in, in, in specialized
embeddings for tabular data, but next week we're mostly going to talk about
model fine tuning and fine tuning and betting models.
And you're really going to find that even with a thousand or 2000
examples of questions and chunks that should be returned for you will
pretty convincingly outperform anything from open AI or for any of these companies.
And I generally believe that if you have 10,000 examples of questions and
chunks that are cited or have a rating, you should be fine tuning, right?
Just because I think the embedding model is the easiest model to train and it is
the easiest model to inference.
And if you want to sort of ever put yourself in a situation, you're
fighting CUDA errors, like that's going to be the most lightweight work to do.
Whereas when you start thinking about fine tuning language models, it's a lot
heavier to sort of reason about.
And like fine tuning and padding models is what Netflix does for movie
recommendations, it's what Spotify does for playlists, it's what Shopify does.
You know, and the companies that don't do that are like blockbuster, right?
And so specialization, I think is very, very strong, very, very beneficial.
I met comments that I have not used specialized embedding models for tabular
data, and so this is just off the cuff.
It seems to me like an unnecessary idea, like tabular data, they either start as
numbers or maybe you have some categoricals and then it's trivial to convert them to
all numbers and even like typically it's trivial to convert them to a dense
representation.
And then the real challenge that I think you're hoping the embedding model
solves is figuring out how to stretch that space or shrink that space so that
some features get weighted more than others.
And I'd be pretty skeptical that some pre-trained embedding model understands
your tabular data better than you do.
So I would just get like, it's already a bunch of numbers, and then I would just
use some judgment to figure out which columns do I want to divide to, like you
can imagine standardizing them, then they all are weighted the same.
But it seems like, not having thought about this very much, it seems like
embedding models just don't seem unnecessary and not a great fit for this problem.
Yeah, I guess, let me think.
I can probably come up with one case that could make sense for the construction
project I work with, which is that if I am chunking like slivers of sort of
specification tables, that there might be some similarity between like three over
four versus like quarter inch screw or something like that.
And then what we're really doing is we're trying to make the embedding model
robust to like all the different commas or the pipe commas and like a markdown
table and just making sure that like, like it's robust to like commas versus
markdown, like pipes, but I think that's the only example I can think of is like
really robustness against like this formatting behavior.
And I guess tables of text also would be very different from tables of numbers.
Yeah.
I think, I think for specs, it might make sense, but that's, that's the only
example where I think something weird could probably, you could benefit from
the tokenization.
Sudhir says, why do I prefer LanceDB versus other bunch of databases?
I prefer LanceDB in prototyping primarily because their API makes hybrid
search and re-ranking very simple.
And so I can just basically pass on a string and say mode equals hybrid dot
rerank, and I kind of get exactly what I'm looking for.
And on top of that, because of the way they do their arrow representation, that
same table I can write SQL against, which allows me to build both hybrids, like
rerankers, hybrid search and text to SQL with a single backend.
And that's just something that I find pretty convenient.
And then the difference between why I use that versus something like Postgres is
just because of the fact that for LanceDB, it's all built on object storage.
And so it's just, it's almost like a, it's like SQLite plus vectors plus text
search, and I think that works pretty well in a local setting.
There's also tons of reasons not to use like LanceDB, like for example, a
robust like cloud solution, right?
Their LanceDB does not have full text search yet, for example, but you know, I
think, I think there are pros and cons to every vector database.
Like I use ChromaDB if I want to set up an application in like 10 minutes.
ChromaDB is like the easiest thing to set up.
Whereas like LanceDB and Timberpuffer really benefit from the way they do object storage.
If I know that I have a thousand or like a hundred thousand users, I can partition
each file and S3 to be the index of a single user, and then what I had to load
in memory is a very small object.
Whereas if I want to make a recommendation for a hundred million
SKUs in a e-commerce website, then the pine cone or Vespa is going to be a better
option because it's a single index with tons and tons of vectors rather than
many indices of, of like millions of vectors.
But I've really only tried like Lance, Chroma, pine cone for some of the projects.
Cool.
Was there any other questions, any thoughts, concerns, feedback from the course?
Oh, Lewis.
Howdy, howdy.
Was just curious how you've seen people do like confidence scores on responses from LLMs.
I guess, yeah, there are different ways of doing it.
Like a additional step after the sort of generation steps of asking for these, this
content, like are there any hallucinations?
Like what's your sort of, what are the, what's the level of changes that have
been made to the original content?
But yeah, I'm curious what you've seen.
So are you saying like, can we ask the language model to self-grade
its own generated response?
Yeah, I guess for context.
So co-founder of a company that automates responding to RFPs,
request for proposals and like security questionnaires, stuff like that.
So yeah, we find how they've responded to similar requirements in the past.
And then run that through an LLM to sort of rewrite the response to address
the new requirement, but yeah, depending on how different those requirements are,
like it can make pretty significant changes.
And so the way we've sort of handled it so far is using the
relevance score from Rerank.
So essentially if the past sort of requirements, very similar, we can
assume that the language model won't have had to make too many changes.
So they can sort of trust the response.
Right.
But yeah, yeah, that's curious.
I guess my second question is what, what does your user do with the confidence score?
Yeah.
So they sort the responses and the ones that have a lower confidence score, they
would sort of put more time into making sure that they've sort of reviewed
manually themselves first.
Right, right.
Yeah.
Okay.
I guess the first thing I would do is try to reduce the notion of confidence
to be like much more quantifiable metrics.
So for example, like whether or not we have a citation.
Yeah.
It's like a much smaller, it's a much more quantifiable thing.
Like, okay, if this response just has no citation because I couldn't find
something explicit, okay, there's an issue.
Right.
Then you could say, okay, in the presence of a citation, there's a bunch of different,
different kinds of like string metrics.
What is the like string distance between my general response and the citation response?
Right.
Yeah.
I don't think that like, I don't think we'll be like 11 sign distance, but there's,
there's going to be something right.
That's going to help us sort of compute a difference.
Okay.
Does it have a citation score?
If so, is there some match?
And then you can do even more complex things where you can have the language
model grade individual systems situations.
Right.
And so there is the, if, if no citations, like red light, if citations, we can
compute the string distance.
And obviously if you just sort of like quoted verbatim, what this, the document
said, maybe this is something I feel good about if there's a big gap, then we can
sort of triage to some LLM greater where again, we want to sort of, like with this,
I'm, I mostly use like rubrics, right?
Where there's, there's like maybe a score that I care about.
There are examples of good pairs and bad pairs.
And then you can just say, okay, given these citations, do these citations
align with what you quoted?
And then, so you, you kind of have like a hierarchy of like complexity that you
can sort of play with on a sliding scale.
Yeah.
So that's one thing.
I also think if you're using local models, there is this avenue that you can
explore with like attention mechanisms, but I, I don't really think about those
things anymore just because I use, I only use open AI.
I don't know if Dan has anything else to think about some of those things.
Yeah.
I mean, the attention angle is an interesting one.
The only other thing I'd say is I think there's, and maybe you've already thought
about this, there's probably a lot to do just with the UI of making sure that
whatever you're pulling out gets highlighted so that someone can easily sit
side by side, see here's the thing we wrote.
But then side by side, like he has highlighted texts that we think is what
it's pulled from, making sure that it's just surfacing the citations in a transparent way.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Yeah, that's really cool.
Well, I also give a very specific prompting tip.
I dramatically improve the results that we get, which is, and in my, in my
accreditation, that we're going to basically have like fields that are kind
of softly defined and then responses that we generate for each field.
So one thing that we found in practice that works like very well is for every
field, instead of just saying like, give me the field title and the response.
I say, first, give me the field title, then reiterate the
instructions for that field table.
So now like basically the, the latest generated text is, has already attended
to the instructions in your prompt.
And then you say, repeat back all the relevant sections from the original
context, and then you generate the response.
And like the interpretation is basically all the data that you want the language
model to attend to now is just in a very focused area of the text.
It became field, instructions, sources, and then the text.
And then you basically, if you just ask for that data in XML, you can just
throw out the instructions and the sources that you generate.
And what we found is it just makes the quality of the answer much higher in general.
And so an example could be, here's a one hour transcript.
Here's like six pages of our pricing documentation.
What kind of pricing should we offer this customer?
And now it says like, okay, first let's meet, let me reiterate what the
pricing options that might look relevant.
Let me then return the conversation snippets that made us think that this is
the right variables we care about for this pricing formula, and then we like
sort of use the LLM to compute the pricing formula.
And what this also means is when you do this review process, if you really
care, you can actually refer back to the sources that the language model set and
the source and the instruction, the language model tried to debug.
So you just sort of like, when you do lose confidence, you can just basically
look at the language model and say like, what, what were you thinking?
And if the instructions don't show up, we can sort of reiterate and work on the
prompt and effectively what you're doing is you're allowing yourself to say,
okay, when I reviewed this, there's a computed confidence score, but also
there's kind of like the LLM explanation.
And the LLM explanation does not align with the quality of the answer.
I can go back and work on the prompt to do that.
In general, just repeating instructions, quoting the relevant data text, and then
giving the answer immediately is something that we like, we use in production a lot
because it just seems to make the reasoning a lot better.
You don't get, you kind of like repeat the hate, like find the needles,
list them out and then, and then answer the question.
This is kind of like a secret that I've worked out.
Yeah.
And that's including, like you'll include citations in your final response
typically, or is that a curiosity?
Yeah.
I, in the specific thing I would do is like for all of the chunks, I just give
each one like an artificial ID and then I, in my prompt, I say treat these
IDs as if they're like URLs and when you give a citation, just include them in
like square brackets, here's an example.
And then as long as you sort of like organize the chunks in your code for
every citation, then you could just basically say, okay, this one part,
my regular expression part out of two.
Let me figure out what citation two is and I can now render them side by side.
And then if I want to use an LLM, I can say given what you said, plus citation
two, LLM, tell me if this was interpreted correctly.
And so there's a lot of things you can do with planar on citations.
I'll try to be more concrete in week six when we talk about some of this
like response generation stuff, but that has been like a very, very impactful
thing, like just making, making them, making the language on repeat
itself has been very good.
Yeah.
Awesome.
That's super helpful.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Sorry about the, sorry for the ramble.
It's something that just works like magic to me.
So I'm like very superstitious about it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I'll have to note that testing a lot of different things.
Yeah.
I think we're at time.
My laptop is at 2% battery.
So if I just hang up all of a sudden, I apologize, but yeah, if there's any other
questions again, just say, feel free to message the Ask Instructors channel.
If you did not join that channel, make sure to join and yeah, I'll see you guys
next week if there's no more questions.
Awesome.
Thank you.
Take care everyone.
Thanks everyone.
Thanks everyone.
