Well, good to meet you all.
Obviously there's a bunch of folks in the room, so we can't like hop around the horn
and get everybody intro'd, but love to meet as many of you as possible.
And yeah, excited to talk about how to not screw up launching
your AI consulting business.
My story starts out having screwed up a different kind of business.
So I was a, I got really excited about generative AI when GPT-3 came out with an API.
I decided, okay, I'm going to start a SaaS company.
First time ever trying to do anything like that.
Really didn't know what I was doing.
Had worked in product before I have an engineering background, but I pivoted
through like eight different, almost radically different use cases.
Everything from a perplexity clone, which at the time I didn't know as cloning
perplexity to a legal question answering bot that was a lead funnel for lawyers
to something like a custom GPT builder before there was custom GPTs.
Anyway, didn't really work out for me, but I learned a lot.
specifically I learned how to build stuff with generative AI.
And I'd come from an agency background.
I was a Drupal developer for many years.
How like has to say it's like a very, Ooh, Drupal, BHP, but that was my early
career for like about seven years right out of college.
So it was very familiar with this kind of agency world.
And I had eventually worked my way up to leadership in those kinds
of companies selling software.
And so I figured, well, maybe I could just take that model and try and run a,
an AI consulting software business.
And it basically worked out.
Can you still see my screen?
I feel like something got switched, but it works.
It works.
Okay.
All right.
Great.
Here's what I got on the agenda for you.
First off is just a little bit of my, a little bit more about the story of a
merge house, the company I started after the one I just told you about and what
we're up to and the goal there is just to show you, you know, if I can do it,
you can definitely do it.
The second thing I want to talk a little bit about the opportunity I see for
these kinds of businesses, cause I do think there's a ton of opportunity.
Then we'll cover some tactical stuff on actually getting clients, some more
stuff around once you get clients, how to find high ROI, AI use cases for them.
And then setting up some client expectations for success.
Once you land a project, lots of material to get through.
I'll try and get through it in the next 20 or so minutes here.
And looking forward to the Q and A after.
So if I can do it, you can do it.
I started the company a little more than a year ago, just before, well, December
2022, and so these are our, I'm sorry, summer 2023.
So these are our 2024 numbers.
As you can see, like down here in January, February, I made nothing
January a little bit for this first quarter and going forward, it was fairly
flat, even for the first six months.
And then it really started to pick up and we were able to clear a million in our
first year and this year we are on track for at least three and we're
hoping for more like four or five.
You know, I'd love to say that this is due to all of my amazing prowess as an
entrepreneur, but I will tell you a lot of it is just the work is really
falling off the trucks, the demand for generative AI consulting services is huge.
I want to give you some examples of real clients that I've worked with.
Cause I think that can help when you're starting a business, just
understand like, what the heck do you actually end up building
with these kinds of businesses?
So I'll give you, I have three examples.
So the first one here, Hope it AI.
So I got this client on X I made some posts.
I can't remember what it was, but it got reasonably some reasonable popularity.
And the CEO of this company reached out to me, they were a startup.
They needed to get serious about AI.
They were currently, they had an app that was built.
This company is like a sermon company.
So you upload your sermon after preaching on Sunday, and then it turns it into a
bunch of supplementary content after that, like emails and blog posts and
other stuff for your congregation.
But they were using like a third party API, which then called a foundation
model directly, and they wanted to build some other features.
And so they found me on X reached out.
And before he knew it, I was in with, in with them and I brought in one other guy.
I, that was, I think the second engineer I hired, but anyway, we, as you can
see, we got written up in Anthropic eventually for the work that we did there,
which was awesome.
This company ended up selling.
So when we started working with them, they were valued around 2 million.
The sound, the founder sold it in about six months for, I think over 7 million.
I, you know, you probably will get stock offers for your services.
Something that I wish I had done with pulpit was to say yes to a stock offer.
I did not.
And I probably walked away from a million dollars.
I, well, it's actually, I did walk away from a million dollars.
That being said, I will tell you one of the ways you can definitely
fuck up a consulting business is getting too many clients who want to,
it wants you to trade your trade cash for stock and instead take stock.
That's a way to screw it up.
I'm actually the fact that we lost a million dollars is a bummer, but I kind
of think the strategy we have of sticking to cash being an agency is probably
the longer term, the right bet.
So I'd say that's something to watch out for.
I won't force you to watch all of these videos, but here's a quick video.
What I would say is talking about what it's like to work with us.
The wild west and everyone is claiming to be able to do this or do that.
And honestly, I've loved working with the merge house for a lot of reasons.
They're so pro like they're just created what they do.
They're phenomenal communicators, you know, in under a year, well under a year,
probably in about 10 months, Andy and the team were literally able to not only
build our product, help us scale it, but also have it in a position to get acquired.
So that's the CEO of pulpits.
And I think the kind, that kind of story, if you can end up working with startups,
it can be a great place to land and you can get stories like that under your
belt fairly quickly because there's so much, so much investment happening in
this space and that's just been a huge asset to us to be able to tell that story.
Another client we worked with called local Falcon.
They are local SEO platform.
They had, you know, this has been an interesting play for us where it's like
a SaaS company that isn't super AI focused or isn't really doesn't have AI at
all, but they're already reasonably successful and they are looking to
add AI into their roadmap.
So that's something we helped them do.
And here's a quick little hit from CEO there.
Any type of business that is exploring generative AI would benefit from having
a merge house come in and scope out that project with them, whether they can do it
or not, at least you're going to have an awesome roadmap and a plan for the idea
that you, you know, that you wanted to bring to the market, you know, there's
that age old triangle of like saying you want quality work, you want it done
quickly and you want it done for a good price and you can typically only pick two
of them somehow these guys have managed to hit all three of those elements for us.
And it's, it's been awesome.
I don't know if we quite live up to the claims he made there.
Project triangle is probably fairly immutable.
They're probably always trade-offs, but he's very kind in his words there.
Something I would say, if you heard him say that at the beginning is like,
Oh, working with these guys, we at least got a roadmap, even if you don't end up
working them with them sort of down the road, what I will say is our model, what
we do essentially get paid to scope.
So what we say is, Hey, if you want to work with us, put some money down, we're
a bigger agency, we can charge a little more.
So we say put 25 K down as a deposit and we'll credit that to your development
budget when you get, get started, but we'll do this scoping for you for free.
And what that means is, you know, we get investment from them.
They're serious.
They have money.
They're, they're ready to play.
They feel a little bit safer about making the investment.
They're not signing up for the whole enchilada at once.
And then we're totally covered.
If the client doesn't end up wanting to work with us, we will get paid for
our time out of that 25 K.
Um, and so if you can figure out a way on a similar model to, to get paid to do
scoping, we've found that to be incredibly successful.
I'm going to skip through this other one because we just are a little bit low on time.
Okay.
So what do I see as the opportunity?
So I took this open AI's framework about the five levels of AGI.
And so if you, if you're not familiar with it, it's, it's great, really worth
checking into here are the five levels.
One is chat bots, you know, classic chat to PT level two reasoners.
So Oh, one class models that are doing thinking third level is agents thing.
AI's that work autonomously, right?
Fourth level innovators, superhuman intelligence and fifth level AI that
can do the work of organizations.
And I did a deep dive into the field of innovation economics, which studies
economic transitions based on innovations, like the industrial revolution
and other similar scale innovation events.
And what I learned is there are some models in that discipline that can help us
understand and frame the generative AI revolution.
And so the most important model that I took away from that is this idea of the
S curve of adoption, which is, you know, at the beginning of a technological
revolution, you have low uptake.
But then over time you get this reasonably fast takeoff period,
and then it matures out.
And the thing that I've learned one frame to keep in mind is although
capabilities may come online quickly.
In order for those capabilities to diffuse through the economy, it requires
companies to invest in complimentary innovations, as well as just make
complimentary investments into things like integration services.
And so what I'm getting at here is I feel like we're in for a much longer haul
than maybe if you're in the X world, you might think if you're in the X world, it
feels like, you know, the singularity is at hand and the whole economy is going to
collapse in two years or less.
And that's actually not my thesis.
I think it's actually going to take quite a while for these various S curves to
diffuse through the economy.
And what that means is we have a lot of opportunity as AI or AGI service
providers to do the integration services.
And so the way I see this is cascading S curves that correspond to each of these
levels. Now, these numbers here might be a little conservative.
I think they could go faster than this easily, but I see five to ten, probably
more than that, years until we reach something like maturity on AGI diffusion
through the economy.
So I think the opportunity in front of us as AI service providers is absolutely
massive. According to my research analyst at McKinsey, aka Chatchabuti Deep
Research, we landed on 7.2 trillion as the global TAM for integration services on
AI over the next 15 years.
There's a huge opportunity.
The work is falling off the trucks.
All right.
How do you actually get it?
So I'll share with you some outbound tactics, things that have worked for us.
Number one, this is what I call the bitter lesson of services marketing.
So if you've read the bitter lesson in the context of AI, if you haven't read it,
go read it. It's worth reading.
But if you're familiar with it, you'll understand the concept that there are
these certain bitter lessons that may not feel good to learn, but that are
actually probably true in the case of services marketing.
The truth is, it is your biggest way to get more work is to do good work.
And it feels like it's not maybe moving as fast as you want.
You're not necessarily pushing a lever by doing that.
But here's why this works.
You do good work.
And if you do it really well, the CEO of that company, the product manager, the
CTO, whoever you're talking about is going to mention you to somebody when
you're there at some networking event or dinner or whatever, and your good work,
the news of your good work will start to spread through your professional network.
We have spent a lot of time and money on all kinds of other tactics.
And I will tell you still, I think probably 70% of our business, especially
today comes from referrals or word of mouth.
So it's not something that's like super scalable.
You can't push on it, but it is true that if you do good work, that is
actually the best way.
That being said, I would not want to be running an agency where our
only tactic was to do good work.
I think it's wise to invest in other strategies as well.
So something I would recommend is posting what I say, cool work.
Like a lot of, I think there's a lot of success to be had for folks on Twitter
who just built like vibe code, something over the weekend.
That's interesting.
Post a video of that on Twitter.
I see those tweets go viral all the time.
I've done those tweets and they've gone viral and I've gotten bites
from prospects based on that.
And if you guys are building something cool, like I would post that to X,
maybe even LinkedIn, and that can really attract attract business.
Maybe more than you think cold emails.
So this is something we experimented with early on and we are still using.
As, as Jason mentioned, we are, when we do this, we offer a whiskey.
So what we say is, Hey, we'll send you a whiskey.
If you have a discussion about what we can do for you with generative AI,
something along those lines.
And it works reasonably well.
I've also just talked to another gen AI consultancy owner and he told me he was
having a lot of success, something like 7% reply rates with the podcast approach
where you say like, Hey, I'd love to interview you about this, about generative
AI in your field as part of my podcast.
Frankly, it appeals to people's vanity and is somewhat of like a not over
saturated tactic and can work really well.
Here's a sample email that we send this particular person in swap your bottle
of whistle pig for one opportunity to walk you through our cutting edge
AI working contact centers.
That's it.
Not terribly complicated.
Sometimes we'll put a little bit more in there, but yeah, the key with cold
email is you've got to get to scale.
When we've really got this humming, we're sending around 10,000 emails a month.
And so it's, you know, it's very, very intensive.
And so we use, so we hired an agency to do this for awhile.
Now we switched over to doing it on our own.
We use clay.com, which is great because you can dump AI into the actual body
of the email to like personalize it more.
I won't say we've had much luck with doing that yet, but we are
experimenting with it for tactic partnerships.
So consider partnering with a larger agency or a connected player.
We've had incredible success with partnerships.
Some of the biggest accounts we've gotten into, we got into Anaconda, the company
that puts out Python and R through a, through a partnership we have through
another partnership, we have access to over 800 enterprise clients that are
very ripe targets for generative AI.
So partnerships can be a great way to get started.
Okay.
So let's say your outbound tactics are working or some version of your tactics
anyway, are working and you've got some clients or you've got some nibbles.
Here's what I, from my experience, which you probably run into some clients will
have a very particular idea of what they want to build right away.
And I think when you first start out, you're probably going to run into more
of these where it's very tactical focused.
Hey, I need a gen AI person to do, you know, build this rag implementation.
Here's the spec sheet or the PRD.
When can you get started?
But there are plenty of other clients who don't know what they want to do AI.
Right.
They have some sense that it's important for them to do something, but they're
maybe not too sure what that is.
And so you can kind of take this strategic strategic role with them.
And, you know, something I found is that people are really confused by
generative AI, right?
It's like, it's so paradigm upending that they don't kind of don't know where to
start and it feels like people forget some of the most basic principles of
just frankly business.
And I found that tying people back down to the basics to kind of first
principles on this stuff can really help.
And I don't mean first principles on ML.
I mean, first principles on business.
What is value?
Very abstract philosophical question.
Well, it's most fundamental level.
The basic idea is it's return minus cost.
So the value of an investment, which whoever is hiring you is going to make
is equal to how much they're going to get in return from that investment minus
how much they're going to pay you.
Very simple, right?
But people forget it.
And what can happen is they get focused on bells and whistles.
Wouldn't it be cool if we built this kind of a feature or that kind of a feature?
Wouldn't it be cool if we had a chat bot?
I will tell you, you do not want to be in a situation where you built a cool bell
and whistle for somebody that does something neat, but ultimately doesn't
solve a problem or ultimately provide value because they will then look at the
work that you've done after it's all finished, even if you executed perfectly
flawlessly and say, like that, I'm not sure it was worth working with that person.
And so that's not the vibe you want.
When you're looking for value on AI projects, the return side of the
equation usually comes in these forms.
It can be a service tier of charge.
Oh, if we build an AI assistant into our SaaS product, maybe we
could charge more for it.
Maybe actually don't think that's a great strategy, but similar kinds of features.
What if we launched an AI agent that's X, can we charge more for it?
Maybe it's a new product altogether.
That is certainly something I've run into where SaaS companies are
a little behind the curve.
Maybe they don't want to work within their current existing SaaS framework.
And they want to start something separate that can eventually connect up with their,
with their current SaaS.
Well, that's a new product.
So there's revenue there.
Something I will say, given the fact that we seem to be headed into a little bit of
an economic downturn, unless the financial political decision coming out of our
environment, coming out of the white house changes its tenor, if we are headed into
that kind of an environment, I think the best way to position AI services is
reduced headcount or basically reduced labor costs.
We don't all don't love the idea of taking people's jobs.
That's no fun.
On the other hand, it's undeniable that AI when properly deployed into internal
workflows can actually reduce labor costs.
And so there, I will say the key is you need to work with somebody who has this
scale, if you walk into a company that's less than a hundred million dollars and
say, I can save you, you know, whatever $50,000 a year on this person's time.
It's not going to be as compelling as if you walk into a place with a $500 million
company and they have 20 of those people on staff and you can say, I can reduce
50% of their time.
Now your time becomes extremely valuable to them.
So scale is important there.
Part of the return can also be a creative output or just output in
general, larger throughput.
Okay.
On the cost side of the equation, it's important you help your clients
understand the costs development, the initial development.
There's also maintenance after you launch.
There's also enhancements, right?
And then of course, on the AI side itself, there's fixed costs for hosting any
particular platforms and then variable usage costs.
So it's important to help clients kind of understand all of those.
What you're really looking for is a workflow within a client organization
that you can speed up by three X or more.
You can speed it up by three X or more.
It's probably really worth the switching costs for either internal or external
users.
If it's not hitting that mark, it may not be as compelling.
Some of the use cases that we tend to see reporting and content generation,
AI assistant slash AI co-pilots, rag, a question answer type of applications,
AI agents, of course emerging and then multimodal AI.
When we walk into an organization, sometimes we'll ask them to go to a
workshop and the basic idea is we'll sit down with you.
We'll generate a bunch of ideas.
Then we'll rank those ideas for you.
And then you, Mr.
Client can select the ideas.
What that actually looks like is we'll outline the revenue in terms of a
teacher size, outline the effort in terms of teacher size, and then give a no go
or go on technical feasibility.
So that's how you can figure out what to build.
I may take about another five to seven minutes here, but I promise we'll get
Q and A in soon setting up client expectations for success.
So something I think it's easy to forget when you're running a services company,
especially if you're new to this is you exist to delight clients and that is all.
So no matter how cool the solution is you build, no matter how well you deliver to
an estimate, if the client does not feel delighted by that experience, you will
not get more clients, they will not necessarily renew with you.
And so your ultimate goal is to delight them, to delight somebody.
You have to exceed expectations.
You can't just meet expectations.
So it's important that you frame your engagement in a way that gives you the
latitude to exceed their expectations.
And that's, that's something that we really focus on.
There's about four phases.
You can chop it up into kind of as many phases as you want, but we see
four phases for project work.
I'll just walk you through some quick bullet points on how you can delight
customers at each of these initiation sales and initial contracting.
So delighting a customer in that phase looks like responding within 15 minutes
when they inquire to work with you.
It looks like showing up to the meeting prepared and it looks like being able to
provide some initial value in a discovery call, not in a way that's kind of forcing
your ideas, but hopefully in a way that saw that listens to their pain points and
solves their problems or kind of gestures at some solutions.
Number two, planning, scoping estimation and statement of work.
And you don't have to run your agency according to these phases.
This is how we do it.
They're the biggest thing we're doing to set client expectations properly is we
are giving an, a reasonable number that we know we can hit in terms of an estimate.
Every client wants to know how long is it going to take and how much is it going to
cost the very first time you answer those questions is the only number that the
client will ever remember about the entire relationship is if you hit that number,
the very first time you say a number on how long it's going to take or how much
it costs, how much you modify that answer going forward, no matter how much they
agree, they're always going to remember back.
Yeah.
But I remember he told me it was only going to take a month and it ended up
taking him three, so be extremely careful not to say a number until you have
something solid and be careful about your estimations.
We don't have time to go deep into estimations, but the very quick version
of that there, the highly unscientific way is make sure you double them at the
very least.
Number three, third phase execution.
The main thing you want to worry about here is just being able to execute within
whatever parameters you've set for the project.
Waste is the enemy.
Always be watching out for building kind of additional features or additional
work that doesn't get the client to their real goal.
Sometimes a client can say they want X and really what they want is a, and only
halfway through the project, you may realize what they really want is a, don't
be afraid to go to the client directly and say, Hey, I think what you really
need is this, or I think what you really want is this.
If there's a way to do it, you know, on this particular thing, 80% faster for a
very little scope change, usually a client is like very open to those conversations.
So that's a way you can delight in that phase.
And then fourth maintenance and it's all about proactive ownership.
If you launch a solution and they have a maintenance contract with you, if
something goes wrong with that solution, you should be telling them, you should
be the one to know first and say, Hey, there's an issue, open AI is down or
whatever the app crash and be able to monitor and set the, again, be the first
to tell them that's how you delight them in those cases, a typical project
structure for us.
I just thought I would go through this so you can get a sense of like how we
run projects and how you might chart out your phases of work as you're talking
with clients, we'd start with a scoping engagement.
Like I said, then like a key thing is you want to have some prototyping or
exploratory data analysis phase, something where you can really try and nail the,
I would say like de-risk the most complex technical part of the project.
So whatever is the trickiest bit, you're not sure AI can do try and tackle that
first in a prototype.
And the other thing is try and use real data.
Don't wait till the end to get data that's real and just work with sample
data or contrived data at the beginning.
That's always a bad time.
You don't want to wait until the end of the project when everything's supposed to
be done to realize that your solution isn't going to work with the real data
from real customers or real internal users.
So get that data upfront.
Build phase, you know, we do weekly touch points with our clients.
We do daily internal touch points, but it is, I think it's important to me with
your clients at least once a week.
Deployment, testing, infra, all of that stuff.
Don't discount that phase in a lot of work that can be 50% or more of the project.
And so this is a huge thing that you often forget about when you're doing
estimates, don't forget about it.
And then maintenance.
I say this is a consolation prize because ultimately what I hope to sell to my
clients is an ongoing sort of monthly subscription to a kick-ass gen AI solutions
team.
And so if they do want to downscale that velocity to maintenance only, it's, it
is a loss for us, but it is a
consolation prize in the sense that we still get to have a continuing
relationship with these folks.
And the way I like to think about it, a maintenance contract is a hunting license.
You have your hunting license to continue your relationship with the
client to continue and try and find things that you can do with generative AI
that's really going to help their business.
And so you can continue to pitch.
Of course, you can also stack these up to like quasi passive income, which is nice.
All right.
That's it.
It was five minutes over the 30 that we planned, but I'd love to hear some
questions.
Awesome.
Thank you.
We're going to first jump through some of the questions on the slide.
Uh, I don't know if we have time for live questions this time, but let's, let's
see what we get through the first question, which is I'm also very curious
about is just how long is your sales cycle for some of these things?
Oh, good question.
Gosh.
It's all over the map.
I've gotten an enterprise contract within three weeks.
That absolutely blew my mind.
We were pushed through procurement in a way that I've never seen happen.
That's extremely rare.
Usually if you're working with mid-market to enterprise, it's more like a four to
six month sales cycle.
Now I would say most of our contracts is probably more in the one to three
month range typically.
That makes a lot of sense.
I think it was just doing a lot more like bigger companies.
Yeah, exactly.
Startups are super fast.
And this is something I love about working with startups is like you meet
the CEO of the startup or the CTO or whatever, and like you're in there the
next week, you know, if they like you, like it's one and done, they like your,
don't your inner you out and it's great.
Totally.
But then sometimes they don't know what they want.
Yeah, for sure.
She's got to figure out a way to keep billing while they don't know what they
want and help them figure it out.
Exactly.
This is a great question as well.
Cause I think about this all the time.
How do you see yourself moving back to a product focused business?
If at all, right?
Yeah.
I think about that.
You know, are we thinking about moving to SaaS in the future,
building a product, et cetera?
Bonnie, you should say that.
So yes, we are absolutely considering.
I shouldn't say considering.
We've made the product product pivot at our company.
We are adopting more of a Palantir services and product models.
So the idea is we're now using our services to be R and D for
products that we can build.
So there's a lot of pain points that we keep running into on projects where
clients will repay or will pay us a hundred to 200 K to rebuild the same
component over and over, not prepared to announce any, make any product news
today, but we are working on a product internally that's designed to meet a
lot of those needs and that we can then deploy to our clients.
It's an open question for me, whether we're really going to be able to
generate a lot of momentum on that on its own, or if it will be something that
we end up just selling to our clients directly through our services engagements.
We'll just have to see.
But I think there is absolutely a very valuable model, a model that BCS and
Silicon Valley in general is waking up to, which is that services companies,
especially in the AI space have a deep insight into the market and, and that
gives them a competitive edge.
You know, every time we walk into a project, because we're not pushing our
software, at least not yet, we're using the best available.
We're totally agnostic, like whatever is the best solution, we'll use it for you.
And so then every time we're doing that, we have the best available state of the
art, everything, and there are still pain points.
So that's actually a great direction on where to build product.
This is a question I have a lot of thoughts about, but I'm curious, how do
you develop your web presence based on who you want to target?
You know, you guys are targeted mostly as a company rather than as an individual.
And I think about that in particular, I think a lot of the questions
that follow this is on LinkedIn versus X.
Well, I would not say I figured out LinkedIn or X our web presence.
I mean, look, if you're just starting out, I think these zero.dev that shift
and like you're good, but we started with a positioning that was quite broad.
And then we actually narrowed it down to startups in particular.
I actually just relaunched our website last week to remove that focus.
And we are now, you couldn't really tell who we work with from the, except for
maybe the client list, but we are more geared now towards mid-market to enterprise.
So yeah, I don't know that there's a silver bullet there.
I would say the one thing to watch out for is if you do niche down your company,
just make sure you're really happy with that vertical and you can succeed there.
Or at least you have a reasonable shot.
I have niche down a services agency into a vertical.
We were not prepared to win in and it was a, it was not a good situation.
And so I'm, I'm cautious of doing it.
On the other hand, there's tons of success stories of people who once they walk
through the door of niching down have just had enormous success.
So it can definitely work.
I don't know.
Those are all the thoughts I have.
How much would you say niching down is like a one way door versus you can kind
of just try a niche and then.
Exactly.
Now it's a great point.
You can, you can definitely back out of it.
You can back out of it.
It's maybe not as easy to back out of as you think, because you, if you've done a
good job, you've kind of messaged that to a lot of folks and they sort of thinking
of you in that way, but like, whatever you can change it for sure.
How do you, how do you think about doing capture on an X and LinkedIn?
And so I think in the beginning for me, I used to just tweet like a call link.
It gets too busy.
You make a form.
What does that look like for you guys?
Yeah.
I think I, I mean, on X I'm like, I think I have my DMS open, which is a little
bit crazy, but it's manageable.
We have a, of course on our website, we have, you know, contact form.
I will say this, like the most important thing is to respond quickly wherever your
capture is, is set up and however it's working.
We did a little bit of research on some competitors in the gen gen AI consulting
space and what we found was a lot of agencies really struggled to even respond
to an inquiry on their website.
Like, Hey, I'm a client.
I would like to pay you money days, days until you hear anything.
And so just some basic like urgency and professionalism goes a long way in this
space.
It's definitely a different issue.
A lot of people, even with the startups, sometimes it's like, yeah, the CEO of
like a billion dollar company will reply to your text message within five minutes.
A regular person takes like four days to reply back.
It's like, Oh, this is exactly, this is why.
I guess this is really interesting too, because a lot of what I've been teaching
in this cohort has been around at least shifting your mindset to going from hourly
rates to like either milestones or value-based pricing.
But how does that work?
Especially because I work as an individual, but you work as a team.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Look, I think value-based pricing is the Holy grail for services companies.
And I have not mastered it.
I'm uncomfortable with it.
We do time and materials.
I'll tell you why that, why we do it and why I think, you know, value-based
pricing is, is better if you can pull it off.
But the reason we do time and materials is it's lower risk, right?
So one of the big problems in, in software projects in general is it's very hard to
estimate, right?
But then if you do generative AI projects, even harder to estimate, because
in software you sort of, you know that it will work, but you just don't know how
long it's going to take you to build in generative AI.
You don't even know that it's going to work and you don't know how long it's
going to take to build to figure out that it's not going to work and then have to
read orient.
So that's very tricky to estimate.
And so that's why we do time and materials.
We do estimations that have big error bars on them.
You know, when a client comes to us and says, Hey, ballpark, can you give me a
cost on this project?
We'll give something with the range of like a hundred to 200 K or 50 to 100,000
out of giant ranges.
And then we'll say, we can work with you through scoping engagement to narrow that.
And so that approach has been successful.
But then, I mean, I think value-based pricing is great because you can go in and
if you can prove the value and tie them down to those numbers and then say, okay,
we'll take a percentage of that.
Like, I think that probably has more money on the table than, than the T and M
approach.
Yeah.
That would make sense.
I think, you know, in the example with the, the sermons, you know, value-based
pricing would have been a majority.
Yes.
But then it's like, you know, you, you do 10 of them, only one of them pick off.
Right.
Just like gambling.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I will say like, you know, figuring out creative ways to participate in the
upside with clients, I think is, is a very interesting approach.
And like, it does give you skin in the game with the client and it does also,
like, I think you can take a bet on your, it allows you to take a bet on your own
ability to solve problems with AI in a way that you really can't as an individual
contributor.
And that can be very valuable because if you're good at solving problems with AI,
you probably will get it done.
Yeah.
I will say another way I think about it is just, you know, if, if it is, if it
does feel risky, it probably means that I am personally not charging enough for
the project.
It's like if a project was going to be something that's like $50,000, but it's
very risky, maybe I would actually say, you know, $120,000, but I'll give you
half of it back if it, if it actually isn't feasible and this is, this is the
loss that we can take.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It is, it is very hard, but very exciting as you sort of climb that, climb that.
I don't know, maybe have another conversation about this.
Yeah.
At some point.
I'm really curious what, what else you've run into.
I think we have time for maybe one more question.
And this is something I'm very curious about as well, which is how are you
hiring?
Right.
Hiring, by the way, I forgot to mention, we are hiring, we're hiring a project
manager.
So if you are a project manager ish type and you're, you decide not to start your
own AI consulting agency, but you're interested in working with the cool and
let me know we're, we're in the market.
But I will tell you actually these kinds of engagements speaking, showing up to
kind of community stuff has been the most successful way for us to, to generate
leads.
Actually, we're also on your job board, Jason, which I will give a shout out to.
It's great.
We get some good leads from that every month.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But just being part of the community, I will say this too, like sometimes I'm
shocked that people will come to me and say like, well, I've got to offer from
Metta, but I really would rather work at your company.
I'm like, really?
Like we're a 24 person little tiny, you know, but the reason they want to work
with us is because we're right in front of real customer problems.
It kind of is where the rubber meets the road with AI and there's just so much
freedom to like really get shit done and see it affect people's businesses very
quickly.
And so don't discount or underestimate the amount of folks out there who find
that really exciting.
And you may realize you have more sort of buying power on recruiting than you.
Then you imagine.
Makes sense.
Makes sense.
I guess if you have 12 minutes left, I want to ask you a question, which is,
yeah.
What is the question you wish we asked you?
Right.
Ooh, that's a good one.
If I could, if I could, there would be one more thing maybe to cover, which is
estimation.
I think estimation is a topic that is really, really deep because it goes into
like psychology very quickly.
Like why are we all terrible at figuring out how long stuff will take, but it is
probably the number one way that people can screw up their client engagements is
just thinking stuff's going to happen sooner than it does.
I would encourage you guys to think about it this way.
I did a deep dive into this earlier in my career and yeah, it just turns out
there's just a bias.
All humans have it that we just think we're going to get stuff done way faster
than we, than we actually get it done.
And there's reasons like, you know, if you, if you imagine a project, you try
and basically figure out how all the buckets of work that are involved with it
and then put numbers by him.
And the problem is you forget about buckets.
Like, Oh, I forgot.
I didn't plan on this bucket.
I didn't plan on that bucket.
Right.
And also when you're putting numbers in the buckets, you may estimate that
based on best case scenario, like, Oh, this is the most senior dev I have or me
doing the work, but maybe a junior ends up doing the work or things again, just
always take a little longer.
So that method of estimating, you're still going to do it.
It's still part of the work, but I would say pair it with another method, which
is called reference class forecasting.
There was some Nobel prize winning work that came out by Danny Kahneman
and Amos Tversky on this.
And basically they came up with a method that kind of gets around human bias on
this and what you do is you, you take a project that you're in front of that
you're trying to estimate.
And instead of doing the, what buckets are in here and how much hours per bucket,
instead you look back at all the previous work that you've done and all the previous
projects, and you say, how complex is this project compared to those?
And then you use those as anchors.
So it's like, Oh, okay.
This is 20 probably roughly 25% more than this project over here, which was sort of
similar and this project took me, you know, whatever three months.
And so this probably I should estimate 3.75 or whatever the math works out to
that method is usually just like way, way, way more realistic because it's
based on real data for how long it took you to do stuff.
You're just getting started on day one.
It's hard because you don't have that previous data, but as soon as you can,
I would, I would do that.
Honestly, I think in my practice, that is one of the things that's made us more
successful than, than if we didn't have that approach.
That definitely makes sense.
I think even on the value-based side, it's, it's also very challenging to sort of do
you still got to give them a timeline.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
Especially there was this one example where a friend of mine is like being
asked to teach like 30 engineers how to use cursor and they're like, would you
do it for like eight grand?
And I was like, so that makes no sense.
Right.
It's like, and then, but to him, it's like, Oh, eight grand for the hours is,
and I was like, you know, and then I coach them through this conversation of,
okay, 20 engineers, how much of that is your payroll?
Oh, that's, that's like a couple million dollars.
Like if they learn cursor, how much better would they be?
Like maybe 20% better.
And the team, the team leader was like, I think they'd be twice as good.
Right.
And say, okay, well, how much would it be worth to you to double the
effectiveness of your payroll?
And it's like, Oh, yes.
Okay.
Like 50,000 dollars.
Right.
And that, that became a way to anchor the conversation is like, for $50, I'll
I can offer you so many more services.
If I was able to get that price.
And even then that's a hard thing to choose, you know, cause why didn't you say
a hundred thousand dollars or something like that?
Right.
Right.
Right.
But you know, it's a great point because also we've just found there's a lot of
interest in teaching engineers to code with AI more effectively, and that is
something we're starting to get more into, we're just spinning up a little
training program around that.
And we see it as a potential wedge in, because if you're brought in as the AI
expert, you know, there there's a shocking amount of, or a lack of AI engineering
expertise, a lot of organizations.
And so if you're brought in as the AI expert, even just to train the team, you
know what we were thinking about this AI feature, do you think you could build
that like it's a great Trojan horse into the organization?
So yeah, I think there's a lot of possibilities there.
Yeah.
I'm actually going to, I'm actually going to plug a lightning lesson that is
happening like sometime next week, which is another friend of mine, Dignesh,
you know, the AI consultant who's been doing as like, I think 20
implementations a year at this point.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Just like how, how people think of using cursor.
Nice.
Cool.
Do you have time for one more question?
I think I don't want to run too long, but I also have to prep for this next
talk using cursor for copywriting.
Let me go back to the question list.
That'd be fun.
Yeah.
I mean, I've been surprised at how much more effective copywriting
can be when done well.
Yeah.
Let me go through some of these questions that could be interesting.
Actually, can you talk a little bit more about this like hunting license concept?
Like how do you then get like sort of re-engage some of these customers?
Right.
Yeah.
So the way that I pitch our engagements is I will say, Hey, you know, so with
my agency, our positioning is AGI transformation partners.
So we're coming in with the idea.
We want to have these deeper, longer relationships with clients that exceed
the scope of a single or a couple projects.
And so I actually show them a timeline with four quarters on it, representing
a year, then each of those quarters, I have a star that says opportunity
mining workshop, and the idea is at every quarter we'll meet to take a larger
look at their organization, what they, what, what investments they should be
considering making with generative AI.
And then we will work from that.
So that's our, that's our general approach.
And I, and I try and bake that in from the beginning.
I've only started doing that recently.
So I can't tell you for sure.
It's going to work miracles.
I hope it will, but we, but what I can say for sure is I've been bitten in the
butt by being seen as the project firm that can get it done, execute quickly.
That's that's great for a little while until the project's done and then cool
down to maintenance contract by, by 40 grand a month or whatever.
And it's like, wow, that sucks.
If only I had done a better job of like teeing up the next batch of work.
Right.
And so I think that's, that's why we're trying to do it that way.
However you do it, I don't, you know, I don't think it matters too much, but just
making sure there's a next next tranche of work that's being talked about at
every, at every stage.
Yeah.
I think a lot of the tactics that I've seen with big agencies is sort of making
sure they're just part of the like planning for the budget year and then
just making room, there's always going to be some implementation that the
team is responsible for.
Yes.
Cool.
I think that's basically a lot of the questions are pretty similar, but I don't
know if you're also on the circle community, but I'll make sure you're invited
to that and then we can share some of the notes there.
Um, great.
We're gonna leave four, four minutes so people can take a break and then we'll
jump onto the next guest lecture in at 2 PM Eastern.
Let me just share the link one more time.
And then, yeah, Andy, thank you so much for your time.
I feel like I learn a lot every time we start this conversation.
Same, same.
I think we should really have another conversation about value-based pricing.
I'm totally down.
Yeah.
I've, I've, I've met some people now doing like $2 million engagements and it's
like, yeah, well on the call, they said they think they could make a hundred
million in the next four years.
And so we just said, Oh my God, like this is like, how do you guys do that?
Love it.
I love it.
It takes you to some of the, some of the larger agencies as well and
see what they're working on.
What I need is a salesperson who grocks this and then, and I'll be off to
the races, but yeah, but you know what?
Like that's the thing, right?
Like, cause there's this salesperson likely will have some like
success-based component to their.
Totally, totally.
Yep.
Yeah.
That's one of the one things I learned too, where it's like the fact that you're
setting your own prices is almost adversarial because we are like
underestimating our own value.
Yeah.
Fair enough.
Yeah.
Fair enough.
All right.
Well, great to meet you all.
And thanks.
Thanks Jason for inviting me.
Of course.
We'll share your LinkedIn over email and then we can have everyone
connect over that way.
Okay.
Sounds good.
Awesome.
All right.
Catch you later.
Cheers.
Take care everyone.
See you pretty soon.
