Welcome everyone.
And you know, I think if you're attending this talk, probably it's because you've already
sort of thought about things like building up a virtual AI.
And if you have, then you generally know that what ends up happening is that these AI demos
work really well.
But as you get into production and start focusing on the last mile of delivery to a natural
customer, that's when things fall apart, right?
And generally it's because of a lack of context when you're building these workflows.
And really it's because understanding what good is, is very hard, right?
It's not going to be just a pass fail for many of these issues.
It's going to be whether or not our domain experts feel like this is good enough to be
shipped to production.
And so I'm really excited to invite my friend, a guest, Chris Lovejoy.
Previously you were like an MD from Cambridge.
Now you're working as the head of clinical AI at a company called Interior, which works
on LLM native clinician led AI.
And mostly you've been building out these agents to put domain experts to work, put
them into the loop and figure out what we can actually build.
And so in the next 30 minutes, you'll learn a little bit more about how you should be
thinking about how to leverage your domain experts.
I think you're surprising take on whether or not you think prompting versus fine tuning
is the way to go.
And ultimately, how do you build trust with the customers of these specialized tools?
And so with that, any other questions we can post on the slide.
And yeah, Chris, the floor is yours.
Appreciate it, Jason.
Thanks for the intro.
So as Jason mentioned, hi everybody, I'm Chris, and I'm going to be sharing some lessons
about building agents in vertical industries.
And specifically, I'm going to talk about a few things.
So firstly, a bit about how you can use domain experts to really supercharge AI development
and why I think that building a custom UI is one of the highest leverage things you can
do to support them in this.
I'm going to share why I think that prompting beats fine tuning for verticalized agents
in the vast majority of cases, but also why you need to go beyond just like prompt engineering
and what are some kind of more advanced prompting techniques that you should absolutely consider.
And then finally, a bit about how to get and maintain customer trust through things like
intelligent performance monitoring and building a secure LL native architecture.
And then depending on time, I have a kind of a little bonus lesson I can share, but if
not, we'll go into Q&A.
So we'll see how we do.
And then a brief background about me and where these lessons are coming from.
So as Jason mentioned, I spent eight years training and then working as a doctor, which
is really where I saw how impactful AI had the potential to be if implemented correctly.
And I then went back to college to study machine learning and learn things from first principles.
But then when I tried to apply those principles in the real world, I realized that actually
many of the principles were either outdated or were really challenging to apply in verticals.
And I think this has become increasingly true kind of post chat in the world.
And so I found I had to keep on reinventing the playbook.
So I did this first at Sarah Care, where I built out the AI function and Sarah Care was
a tech enabled home care company that recently hit 500 million ARR.
And then again, at various other companies, I kind of felt like I was reinventing the
playbook there as well. Companies I worked at, consulted for, including my own companies
all the way up until today at Anterior, which is very much an LL native company where we're
using LMS for health care admin.
And I think also one experience I've had is that while health care was very much the first
vertical that I worked in, since then I've worked across multiple different verticals,
including education, recruiting and retail.
And I think a lot of the principles and probably the majority of the principles apply across
all these verticals. And explicitly, I think the content of this talk, I'm talking to those
principles that are generalizable.
And before I dive into those lessons, I just want to take a quick step back and ask the
question, why is it so hard to successfully apply LLMS to specialized industries?
So I think there's a few reasons.
Two that come to mind are firstly, this last mile problem.
And the last mile problem is the challenge of taking powerful models and getting them
to work well in the specific context of a certain customer and a certain industry.
And really what I've seen is that the challenge is no longer in the quality of the results.
It's no longer in the quality of the reasoning.
Maybe two, three years ago, these models would often fail in their kind of reasoning in a
clinical context or an illegal context or elsewhere.
And I think that's no longer true.
I think now the errors that I see are around the model not having the context on specifically
how workflow is performed in that industry.
And I think another component that is also making it difficult to apply LLMS in vertical
industries is it's harder to define what exactly is good and what is correct.
And you really need a domain expert here to basically translate that.
And so not just anybody can come and kind of build and evaluate these applications in
these industries.
It's there's like extra steps that you need to take.
And I'll talk about what I think that should look like.
OK, so on this first point of how can domain experts supercharge AI developments?
So there's this maxim that many of you will have heard of that one of the most important
things when building LLM products is to look at your data.
But what if your data looks something like this?
You have your AI generates now, but this is a this is a legal example.
And I'm not a lawyer.
I wouldn't know whether this is right or wrong and in what way it might be wrong.
So you therefore can't just look at your data yourself.
It's not it's not often as simple as that.
What you need to do is empower domain experts to actually look at and then translate that
data into something actionable.
And I think what that can look like is something like the following.
So let's say you have your production application.
It's live. It's generating some kind of AI outputs.
I propose that you want to then use domain expert reviews to take those outputs and make
a number of of kind of useful inferences from that.
And so four of the top things I think you should be looking to get are you want to get
performance metrics.
So how well is your AI doing?
Like how accurate is it if it's making some kind of decision or what kind of characteristics
and traits are you are you is it kind of performing at what sort of scores are you
getting and then where it's not performing well.
What are the specific failure modes that you've noticed in your AI as well?
And then also suggested improvements.
So how might you actually improve your system?
What are different things that maybe you could even automatically put into your into your
agents and into the context that might improve things and then also input and output pairs.
And I'll touch a little bit later on how that can be useful and what that might look like.
But if you're able to do domain expert reviews and get these kind of outputs, there's a number
of helpful things that you can then concretely do with that.
The first of those is it enables you to quite nicely prioritize work.
You know, you're using production data.
So this is very representative of the kind of data you're going to be getting going
forward. And you can plot graphs like this.
So for any particular error metric, any particular way in which like the kind of metric that
you most care about, your customer most cares about, you can see what sort of failure modes
are most contributing to that.
And therefore, where do you want to focus your efforts to improve them?
What you can also then do is get these ready made failure mode data sets because you've
reviewed from production.
You've said when it's wrong and in what way you now have these example inputs that your
AI received that were wrong and you can group them by failure mode and then you can give
that to an engineer and they can make changes and they can see what's the impact on the
performance. So these groups by particular failure modes.
And if you initially came from production, you probably have zero percent accuracy.
But as you make changes, you go to retest it and see what the impact is.
And that lets you do things like this, where you're making changes to your pipeline and
maybe between different increments along the X axis here, you're improving certain
failure modes and deliberately like focusing on how you can improve those.
And then you'll see jumps in that and points over time and you kind of get this gradual
trend over time. And then you can obviously also then check that you're not regressing
on any other failure modes once you're making those changes as well.
And the overall process that this enables and why I think this is really powerful for
vertical AI applications is that this is kind of a continuous loop that you can perform
that really embeds context about a specific way that a customer performs and a specific
way in which the AI is wrong for that particular customer today and lead this full
iteration loop to then improve it.
So it looks something like this. So you have your production application, you're getting
your AI outputs, which gives you the performance and the categorization of failure modes.
You can then give that to a PM.
And in my experience, it often makes sense for this to be a domain expert PM.
They can then specify a failure mode that they want to be fixed based on the priorities
and how much it's impacting the top line metric.
They can give it to this engineer.
This engineer can test against that ready made failure mode data sets.
They can keep on making changes and see what sort of impact it has.
And then once they're happy that they've come up with some changes that really improve
it, they can give it back to the PM.
The PM has the full context on all the different work that's going on and the kind of
downstream impacts this might have and can then make decisions about going live.
And you can do this whole process in a very short period of time if you have all these
kind of fundamentals in place.
And I've talked more about this in more detail here at this link, so feel free to check
out the full video.
But this is kind of like the I think a very powerful process that can really enable you
to solve this last mile problem.
But that's kind of downstream.
That's once you're getting these different pieces of information that you want, your
performance metrics, your failure modes.
The next question then is how do you actually perform the reviews that get this kind of
information?
And you can often start in a relatively low tech way.
People often start with Google Sheets or maybe you look at the raw traces of the data
raw traces in Langfuse.
There are also various like EVAL vendors that will give you these dashboards.
But my take here is that you very quickly run into limitations with a lot of these
approaches. For example, it's not easy to integrate the downstream data that you're
generating from these reviews into your production application.
And you can also run into limits of what you can present.
So obviously in a Google Sheets, you have a 2D view and it's very hard to like surface
the kind of context that you might want to.
Whereas I think that building a custom review dashboard is really the way to go because
it solves these problems. It gives you maximum freedom over how you can present that.
And it's very easy to then embed that data downstream into your system.
And so this is an example custom UI that we built at Anterior.
And here on the right hand side, you have your medical record and then you have this
other tab for your medical guidelines.
You can kind of scroll up and down.
So all of the context that you might need is available.
And then the left hand side is the specific question that the AI is answering right now.
So you have the context where it is and then you have the question, you have the AI's
answer, and then you have this box at the bottom which enables you to then annotate
that. And it's this annotation box that enables you to get these four pieces of
interest. So you can say what's correct or incorrect.
And by doing that, you're getting performance metrics.
You're seeing how often are you correct and you can chop and change that based on
different axes of interest.
You're getting the failure modes because there's this button here for tagging the
failure mode. You click on that and it opens up the failure mode taxonomy that you
can then select from.
And for suggested improvements, the way that we do that is you have this domain
knowledge button. You can click on that and you can then insert some kind of domain
knowledge that you think if the LLM had had that domain knowledge, it would have
been correct on this particular question.
And for input output pairs, you can also then have this drop down, which enables
you to specify what is a correct output.
So you have all the input information here, the context, and then you get a
correct output. And that can be helpful in a number of ways.
And I think the general principles when building a custom UI, my kind of
proposition is that there are three things you want to be optimizing for.
And the first of those is high quality reviews.
I think if given the choice, you want a low volume of high quality reviews rather
than high quality, high volume of low quality.
And this is because you really want to be able to trust the metrics that you're
generating. And you might use this data downstream, maybe for fine tuning models
or maybe for actually concretely putting it into your production application.
And so, you know, you really want to be able to trust that.
But equally, you also don't want your reviewers to spend ages doing every review
and get review fatigue.
So you also want to minimize the time taken.
And then the third point of generating actionable data, that's basically
generating these kind of outputs that I'm talking about.
And I think there's three high level principles that I always try and keep in
mind when building out custom UIs that I think meet these objectives.
So the first is optimizing for clearly surfacing all the required context.
So in the example that I showed on the right hand side, we had the kind of wider
context and everything that the user might need is there and they can like
scroll through it.
But we're abstracting some of it away.
So it's not like overbearing on the screen.
And on the left hand side, you have the more specific context for the user to
drill into, which then is kind of also helpful to have that separation kind of
cognitively.
And then I think, you know, you want to have all the information available, but
then you don't want to overburden.
So you might use like a show like tabs, sidebars, nesting, different sort of
techniques to abstract things away.
And then for the second principle of optimizing the review flow sequence, my
take here is that you want to form an opinion on what the ideal review flow is
and then kind of bake that into your custom UI.
And that might be through visual cues.
It might be actually by enforcing that the reviewer does certain things step by
step.
And then you want to invest effort in really minimizing the friction of
performing that review.
So making sure the information is available in the right place so that you
preventing scrolling, clicking kind of too much, too much manual work on behalf
of the reviewer.
And the process that I've seen helpful for this is doing a lot of shadowing of
domain experts doing these reviews and understand, you know, what are the natural
variation in flows?
Because typically I've seen actually these reviewers often have their own flows
and then forming some sort of opinion on what you think makes the most sense and
baking that in.
So that's the first point on my second kind of lesson here is around prompting
versus fine tuning.
And I think this is obviously kind of common question and probably the answer to
this is continually evolving over time as well.
My take today is that for the majority of cases for vertical applications, better
prompting is more important than fine tuning models and it's a better way to
improve performance.
And I think this relates to the fact that in verticals, the typical issues you'll
face are around having the right context rather than the reasoning of the model.
So with fine tuning, it's often not necessary because actually out of the box
models today are great even at domain specific reasoning.
You know, they have that kind of trade data in their training data.
And also, I think whenever you're doing fine tuning, you're adding a bit of
complexity that you're not necessarily adding if you're prompting.
So, you know, you might be fine tuning per task and then you might fine tune
across different customers as well.
So you're having like lots of different models that you're having to manage and
you need to monitor the performance for all of those models.
I think with fine tuning, you're also doing that at a specific point in time
using a certain set of data and actually the way a workflow is being performed or
the way an organization operates kind of all over the time.
So that performance can naturally deteriorate.
And so, yeah, this is why I think prompting is often an optimal solution.
I think the arguments for fine tuning outside of performance can still
absolutely be there.
So things like optimizing for speed, optimizing for reducing costs and for
scalability, all that sort of thing.
But I think as a first go-to, my take is that prompting for improving
performance is typically the best place to start.
But I think on the prompting front, my push would be that I think just actually
tweaking the prompts themselves and really over optimizing those can be quite
brittle because it's fiddly, you know, every time you change a prompt and change
some words, you might improve in one area, cause problems in another area.
There's also a degree of model dependency.
So some prompts might work well for some LLM and then less well for another LLM,
but you really want to have the ability to kind of chop and change large language
models to keep on top of progress.
And then I think also the static point is true as well.
If you're using static prompts, then as I said, the organizations and
workflows can continually evolve and change over time and how they operate.
And therefore the kind of prompts themselves can become stale.
And so two techniques that I think really are very effective in vertical
AI applications are firstly context augmentation.
And so this is using a domain expert, a data expert generated knowledge base.
And kind of like injecting that into the prompt context.
So in the, in the UI I showed before, we had this add domain knowledge button.
You might, you have your domain experts who might then add in some information
that can then get retrieved at inference time and used by the model.
And here at the bottom left, there's an example of this happening in, in finance.
Where, you know, an example bit of domain knowledge might be that for some
specific regional bank, they define a high net worth individual as follows.
And this might be really important for when an LM is performing some sort of
decision making around, around high net worth individuals, because actually
different banks will have different definitions.
And so you really want to give the model that's operating in that specific
customer's context, understanding of how that customer makes that definition.
And yeah, and so these are other finance examples as well.
And then I mentioned before input and output pair examples, and this is,
this is useful for in context learning.
And what's helpful here is, you know, sometimes with prompts, it can get tricky
to explain things explicitly yourself.
And actually really what you want to do is just show it through examples.
And so you can do a few shot prompts where you put in, you know, seven, 10, 12,
sometimes more examples of input output pairs.
And you can do smart things like you can put an input output pair, which was
initially wrong, and then put the correction from a domain reviewer.
And that's going to help the LM to not make that mistake in future.
And again, this is something that you would want to retrieve in real time,
you know, while doing inference.
And kind of the next point here that really builds on top of this is that you
can actually go beyond just tweaking this kind of context and doing this very
dynamically and in an automated way using evaluations.
And this is particularly helpful as you start to scale and serve many different
customers across different workflows.
And what this can look like is you have your domain expert UI, they're generating
new domain knowledge or an input output pairs, and they kind of live in a domain
knowledge base here, you then have these evals you can run against.
Which could be failure mode data sets, could be other evals that you build.
And you can see which of these are useful and in what sort of contexts, and you can
use them in real time retrieval of that knowledge in your actual application
pipeline.
And the retrieval here, sometimes you can do keyword matching.
So for example, for the ultra high net worth individual one, you might be keyword
matching on that text or the acronym and this other thing.
You can also do semantic similarity.
You can wait by recency, which helps with the fact that things trend over time.
And there might be changes in the precise workflow.
And you can do things like optimizing for diversity by picking input output pairs
that are most similar to your query, but that are most different to the existing
input output pairs.
And this is, I guess, the main, the main, like, I think advantage I see here being
that you're really baking in what is the most recent relevant information you have
on how a particular context, how particular like workflow is performed and giving that
dynamically to the element context.
And therefore you're really doing this real time and kind of as, as, um, as
closely customer as possible.
Okay.
So third and final lesson, um, plus or minus the bonus lesson is about getting and
maintaining customer trust and through performance monitoring and a secure
eliminated architecture.
So when I think about getting trust, uh, from a customer for a verticalized agent,
I think of three primary things.
The first is getting confidence in AI's performance.
The second is confidence that you're handling data securely and correctly.
And then thirdly, that you're aware of these LLM specific attack vectors that
continually evolving and you're, you're taking active efforts to mitigate those.
So in terms of the first one, achieving AI confidence by monitoring and reporting
performance, I think there's a few, a few things here that, um, I've seen work well
in practice.
The first of these is doing reviews of production outputs and getting these
performance metrics.
And you can use a UI like, like the kind of UIs that I've, I've shown.
Um, and then with those metrics reporting those two customers, whether
that's bi-weekly or monthly, um, but giving them, giving them insight.
Um, it's particularly obviously relevant in a kind of enterprise context where
they want to understand how things are performing.
Um, and as things scale, you will then obviously run into this case where you
can't review all AI outputs and it doesn't make sense to, but you'll need to
define a sampling strategy such that you're therefore reviewing the highest
priority cases.
And this can be things based, um, such as uncertainty.
Uh, this can be looking for outliers.
This could be stratified sampling based on certain characteristics.
And then you want to also have an internal response protocol such that
whenever performance deviates below certain targets or SLAs, you have some
way to respond to that.
And this is things like defining who has responsibility for the performance and
improving it, what kind of techniques you might use, um, and how do you make
sure that when you're closing that loop, you're not introducing any other errors.
Um, and you know, with things like regression data sets.
And then finally, um, you can use LMS judge evaluators to help scale the,
the ability to monitor.
I think explicitly this is, I would recommend not starting with this.
I think it makes a lot of sense just to start with human initially and really
kind of get the ball rolling.
And then later you can always introduce as LM as judge.
Um, but it can be very helpful once you're starting to run into problems of
scale to be able to, to be able to use this.
So I'm just going to talk through a specific case study that I was involved
with, um, where we were using evals for mission critical healthcare application.
And I've shared this in more detail, um, earlier this year in New York at the
AI engineer summit, so you can see the recording of that, um, if interested.
Um, but the, the kind of problem setting was that we had an AI agent that was
answering medical questions like this.
So does the patient have a brain MRI suspicious for multiple sclerosis
and giving some output answers.
But because the agent was processing a large volume of cases, there was no way
that the customer, that the user, um, could actually review all of those cases.
And they could, you know, review around 5%.
And so if you have all of your AI outputs and the 5% here represented by the red,
all the ones that you're, um, able to review because you have capacity, then
you have these two questions for the cases to review, you have to ask, okay,
which cases should I review?
And then for all of the ones which you don't have capacity to review, the
question is, how did you do on those cases?
And we use an LM as judge to solve this.
Um, so you have your kind of input, it goes through the actual pipeline itself,
generates some kind of outputs that would then be passed to an LM as
judge.
And what the LM as judge would do is it would use a scoring system.
It was reference free.
So it didn't know what the actual answer was, and this was happening real time.
Um, it would then generate some kind of confidence in that original answer.
And in this case, we're answering yes, no questions.
Um, and so therefore you can use that confidence and set a threshold to
determine what the predicted correct output is.
So if, for example, your, um, your initial pipeline said that, yes, the
answer is correct and your confidence was low, then you might flip that.
And actually the LM as judge thinks the answer is no.
Um, this can be helpful in a couple of ways.
So firstly, with the predicted outputs, you can therefore get these performance
metrics, like I talked about, which you can then communicate with customers and
use internally to understand how you're doing and to drive efforts.
Um, and you can also then get alignment because for this subset of cases where
you're doing both human reviews and LM as judge reviews, you can compare how
much do they align with each other.
And that gives you insight into the performance of the LM as judge.
And then the second part of this is that the confidence grading you get, you can
actually directly use that to prioritize reviews.
And so we built the system that's used these confidence grading from the LM as
judge, it used other factors such as procedure costs, the risk of bias and
error rate on that guideline.
And then of all of the cases that you have, you can rank them and you can
prioritize which ones you want to do reviews on.
And this made this really positive feedback loop where the LM as judge was
servicing cases to review and prioritizing those we then had human reviews were
then actually review those cases and determining the accuracy of the reference
for evil, the LM as judge.
So we then make changes and improve the reference for evil.
And we kind of kept on doing that, um, leading to these improvements.
And then once it gets to a certain point and the accuracy of the LM judge
system is strong enough, you can then actually put it in the pipeline itself.
So now what we, uh, now what is live in production is that the input comes in,
you get the LLM pipeline being activated and generate some kind of outputs.
It then goes to the reference for evil.
It then goes to the reference for evil, the LM as judge.
And if it's confidence, it will then go ahead and return that to the customer
as it would have before.
But if it's not confident, then it can go and take another action, which might
be sending it to another LLM or doing some initial processing, or maybe even
escalating for a human review before returning it to the customer.
Um, and so that's about confidence in the performance of the AI.
The, uh, other points I want to touch on is around data handling and LM
specific attack vectors.
I think on data handling, there are many different things to think about three
kind of top considerations that come to mind.
The first is that I think it makes sense to map out your data uses strategy early
on, um, and this is for things like how you want to use customer data for
performance monitoring, um, how you might want to use it for fine tuning.
And I've seen this be particularly important in enterprise.
Um, and the reason I say early is because it's helpful to be able to discuss
these things in the contracting phase.
You can avoid this scenario where later on, uh, things are a bit ambiguous about
how you can actually use that data.
Um, and you're therefore not sure necessarily what you actually can do with it.
Um, and I think it's helpful to come to these, um, contract negotiations and
discussions with an opinion on how you want to use the data.
Um, I think one reason that's important is because a lot of customers that are
kind of buying these, these products are often still operating in kind of old
traditional machine learning paradigms.
So they're actually not even necessarily sure what they should be asking for and
what's what like sensible data, um, use of strategy looks like.
Um, but I think then, you know, come with that opinion and then have a collaborative
discussion because actually it might depend on the specific customer, what
they're interested in, uh, you know, in some cases, some might really want to
fine tune a model and get some sort of performance gains.
Um, others might explicitly not want to fine tune a model and therefore don't want
you to be able to do that.
Um, and an opinion here, you know, typical things you might consider is
agreements to hold onto data, to do QA and performance monitoring for like three
months or six months.
Um, maybe you want the option to do fine tuning experiments.
And then for those experiments, you would only train on that customer's data and
that model would only ever be available for that customer.
And these kinds of exclusivity things, I think are often important.
Um, but in general, yeah, it's useful.
You would just like have that strategy early on and kind of iterate on that
with customers.
Um, second point here is, you know, it's worth being ready to offer customers
isolated, single-tenant environments with their own database instance, perhaps
their own model instance, um, just having that in mind because some customers will,
will explicitly want that.
And then I think a final point on data I want to call out is considering investing
in synthetic data generation, whether you want to use that data for performance
monitoring or for fine tuning.
I think, um, depending on the complexity of the data that you work with, it can
be, it can often be quite hard to make synthetic data that is an accurate
representation of production data.
But that doesn't necessarily mean that it can't be helpful.
Um, and one way that I've seen really, uh, the, the data has been helpful is that
you can be serving different customers doing this process I've described and
identifying certain failure modes.
And then you can generate your own synthetic data based on those failure
modes, and there are actually matters less whether that data maps to the
same input data distribution.
What's more important is that it's able to elicit the failure modes, because then
you can create these failure mode data sets and you don't have the same
restrictions with that data compared to, for example, you have a customer data,
maybe you have an agreement, you only hold onto it for three months.
If you build your own synthetic data, but it still elicits those failure modes,
then that's useful kind of IP that you have as a company and that you can use
indefinitely.
Um, so those kinds of things, I think are really helpful.
And then just finally to touch on a couple of, um, LM specific security
considerations.
Um, you know, you may well have heard of things like prompt injections where a
malicious actor can, can, um, get instructions, uh, into the inputs that,
that make your LM act in ways that you don't want it to.
And as best practices here, like doing input filtering and I've seen some kind
of elegant solutions around wrapping the initial query in another LLM that
basically is just classified to see whether this might be a prompt injection.
Uh, things like validating the outputs, requiring human approval for high risk
actions, then obviously preventing sensitive information disclosure, often
in vertical industries, you're working with, uh, sensitive industry data.
And you might want to do things like sanitizing the data where you remove
certain information such as PII before you send it off to an LM or before you
do any training, uh, and you want to avoid things like data and model poisoning,
which is where somebody kind of deliberately puts adversarial examples into a training
set, um, for things like backdoor attacks for maybe just even reducing the
accuracy of your LLM.
Um, and best practices there are things like track your data origins, uh,
inspect your data before doing training, use data version control, this sort of
thing.
And I think the, the kind of high level point here is this space is very much
like evolving and, uh, it's worth just exerting some effort to keep on top of
it.
Um, this is a report here from OWASP that I think is, is a pretty, um, decent
summary of what some of the top risks are and what some of the best practices
are, but you just want to be able to, um, you know, kind of keep on top of that
and, and, and have an opinion, um, make that into your products.
Okay.
So, um, I have this bonus lesson, which I think is, uh, it's in a couple of
slides, maybe like five minutes.
Um, Jason, what do you think?
Should we dive into Q and a?
First of all, I love to see this.
Okay.
Cool.
All right.
And in which case let's go through this one and then we'll, yeah, I think the
chat agrees as well.
Cool.
Awesome.
All right.
So, uh, which domain experts did you hire and how should you use them?
So my, my opinion here really is I think there's a lot to be said for hiring a
principal domain experts, and this is somebody who has ultimate responsibility
for the performance of your AI and defining what's good, defining what's
correct in certain circumstances.
And I think the argument for, for this is one is organizational having them as a,
as a DRI, as a directly responsible individual helps you to move faster.
You avoid consensus by committee.
Um, sometimes you'll have uncertainty over whether, you know, some kind of
nuanced output is, is good or not, or is correct or not having somebody who can
make the final decision on that is really helpful and kind of like unblocks
you to, to move faster.
I think, um, because this person can be very important, it makes sense to
hire them as early as possible.
Um, bake their kind of thinking into your products and really give them
ownership so that they, they, um, hang around.
And I think the reason this person is important is that they can really build
perhaps the best intuition in your whole company for how your AI system performs
and how it can be improved.
Um, because they'll spend a lot of time looking at the data,
looking at these interactions.
They have the domain expertise so they can therefore interpret it.
Um, and then they can also play this very important role of actually going beyond
just looking at the data itself and designing and creating this, this high
level system around that.
A lot of the things I've been talking about, um, in this talk, like I think it
makes sense for them to really be steering that.
And so, um, you know, explicitly a few other things that they can help you with.
As you scale and you're generating more AI outputs, you'll probably want to hire
a team of reviewers and they can help with that.
You'll also then want to define your sampling strategy.
So you're picking the most relevant subset of cases to review.
You'll want to analyze review data.
You'll want to monitor performance of different reviewers.
So are all your reviewers performing above a certain standard?
Do they agree with each other?
Um, things like steering product development, prioritizing engineering
work, uh, talking to customers can be helpful, um, explaining things and also
understanding what the customers care about.
And then obviously the things I touched on, like improving the actual AI
performance itself, tweaking prompts, adding domain knowledge, that's that sort
of thing.
And so, um, when it comes to actually hiring the, this principal domain experts,
my proposition and my take here really is that you want somebody who has as many
of these kinds of experiences, um, on the right-hand side as well, as well as
their domain expertise.
So you kind of want them to meet a critical domain expertise threshold.
And we can talk, you know, in the Q and a bit about a bit more about what that
looks like, but it's very helpful if they have management leadership experience
because then they can manage this team of reviewers that you hire at, and they
can hire those reviewers from their industry connections.
Um, and likewise, if they have statistic experience, they can define your
sampling strategy, they can review the data, um, they can stay a product
development, um, if they have product skills, this kind of thing.
Um, and you know, as an example at anterior, and if you use a self
reference here, I was, I played this role at anterior.
So, um, I was initially reviewing medical outputs, um, like kind of medical AI
outputs, um, because my medical background, and then as things grew, you
know, I had my network in, in healthcare, I could quickly find reviewers.
I have a background in data science, so I had to find our sampling strategy,
that sort of thing.
Um, and then I'm also a software engineer, so I kind of could get hands on
with like the AI implementations and, and trying to steer things on that side.
And I think in general, you know, having one person who really, um, kind of
steers and owns on this side of things enables you as an organization
to, to move much more quickly.
Um, cool.
So that's everything I wanted to cover.
Um, before we go into Q and A's, um, just quick call outs.
So if you are a business that's working in a vertical industry, you know, I'd
love to share learnings and talk about some of the problems you're working on.
Um, and I have some, some limited capacity to chat, but if you scan this
QR code, um, if you want to book some time with me, I also have a personal
mailing list, uh, the link is here on the right hand, on the left hand side
where I share, you know, my learnings as I'm building out different
vertical AI applications.
And I am sharing a free ebook on building AI in vertical industries
towards the end of October.
Um, so if you want to email notification when I release that, um, feel free
to sign up here, um, but yes, thank you for your attention and, uh, yeah, we'll
dive into questions.
That was great.
Thank you so much.
I feel like as for the, the talks on domain experts, you know, having a DRI
makes, makes a lot of sense, but I find that in most cases it is just the case
that, oh, by the way, Jason, we have a couple of folks, I, I, one of our, like
customers that will look at some things for us and it's, I think that DRI is,
uh, pretty, pretty critical.
Um, yeah, so if you don't mind, let's jump into some questions and see
what, how much we can get through.
All right.
Um, the first question is around like, you know, the transition from maybe
what we would consider like a traditional rag system where we do this, like one
shot search and then we build up the context, um, compared to like a deeper
like agentic rag chat bot, like how have you thought about these kinds of
differences and building the applications you're seeing these days?
Um, yeah, it's a good question.
I mean, I think, um, it's obviously important to have the, the kind of
different context available for these agentic systems to be able to kind of
call on them and setting up such that explicitly they're, they're able to, um,
kind of access the context that they need for the relevant decisions that
they're making.
So some part of it, um, from an agentic context is, you know, if, if a certain
task is being performed, uh, what are the types of context that that might need?
And how do you make sure that they can like surface those available and the
methods that you might use for retrieval in one context might be different from
in another context because it really kind of depends on the relative
priorities, um, for whatever particular task you're being, you're performing at
that time.
Yeah, I would also call out another fast, which is a fact that Colin will give
another talk I talked about, which is this idea that the agents are much more
persistent in the way that it does search.
And so one of the benefits of having an agentic system is you're really trading
off a bunch of latency during inference time, but the agentic system will
try, try, try again.
It might do five tool calls, read some information, do five more tool calls.
And so if you think that the information is very hard to find, right.
Where maybe your embedding search or your full-text search is only like 60%,
70% accurate.
Having an agent in the loop really allows you to improve the end to end recall
of the system.
Um, another call out, another question someone had was around data extraction
and data triage.
It says, what do you think, do you think we should be separating data extraction
tasks from data triage tasks in the ingestion phase?
Um, and just help me understand that one.
So as in, uh, data ingestion versus data triage.
Yeah.
Maybe if the person asking the question could maybe just leave another comment
in the chat, but, um, I can imagine something, maybe this interpreting this
question as we've already talked about, but I think it's a question that's
a bunch of data coming in.
Maybe some of them are health records.
Some of them are, you know, schedule.
Some of them are, you know, scans of other data.
I guess there is sort of one stage, which is understanding what the data is about
and the second stage of extracting the data out.
Maybe it's kind of structured form or anything like that.
Yeah, no, that's a great call out.
And I think, um, my experience I've seen, I've seen it be very powerful
understanding, like building an understanding of the context of that
data that's come in.
Uh, so whether it's like you have somebody who have medical records, it
might be a couple of hundred pages long and they might have like different
encounters and different types of information.
I've seen performance like be very significantly improved by actually, uh,
kind of getting the semantic context of, okay, this was like an encounter of a
certain type and this was almost another type getting some sort of like
summarization of that.
And then when it comes to retrieving context, the agent or the system that's
trying to find that relevant information has an understanding of that information.
Um, I think that's particularly important.
Yes.
When you're working with large volumes of data and when the data is, um, yeah,
kind of like different in nature, I think being able to separate that out,
support retrieval is, um, I've seen it be very effective.
Um, yeah.
Yeah.
I would also call out in the, in the slide that you had earlier on these, like
failure modes, generally what will happen is as you identify these failure modes,
you can go backwards and figure, okay, well, if these are the failure modes,
then maybe we can do more investment in certain kinds of data categories.
The example I always give was, uh, we first had just search over PDFs.
And then we've found that actually what people care about is filtering for
contracts that were signed or not signed.
And so now we classify, is it a contract, if it was a contract,
we extract what's signed.
Right.
None of this, none of this is difficult, but a lot of it is around looking at
data and understanding what the use cases are.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Another question here around, uh, what are your thoughts on handling missing data?
Doing processing of some data points are missing.
How do you address this issue?
This is a very general question, but yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I think, um, uh, one part of this is like, can you identify a way to
identify if information is missing?
And so you can explicitly have some sort of like output from the system being
like a decision saying, Hey, information is missing and maybe like requesting
more information, um, I guess the following question is like, okay, well,
well, what does that system look like?
Like how do you actually get it to know when, when information is missing?
And that probably depends a bit on like the specific use case.
Like is there certain information that should be available?
Like the certain context that should be included somewhere.
And therefore you can have like separate classifiers to pick up.
Was that contained?
Um, but yeah, some, I mean, sometimes it's tricky, right?
Because you don't necessarily know what you're missing.
Um, I think one of the component here can be more generally having like some sort
of uncertainty threshold, for example, for returning a response.
So maybe if your, if your system or your, your agent, um, has reviewed the relevant,
like evidence and context, and it's just not sure where to make a decision, it can
escalate that under like a level of uncertainty and therefore it's not
explicitly saying it doesn't, it's missing information, but it's like, I
don't have enough information to be confident.
And so that's like supporting, uh, that scenario.
That makes sense.
And then here, you know, when, when you are finding these failure modes, how do
you evaluate and decide where to devote effort into, you know, the various
techniques to improve performance?
Yeah.
I mean, I think a lot of this is, is a bit of a judgment call.
Um, so one thing I found helpful is trying to group failure modes, um, maybe
based on common ways that they could be fixed.
And actually I think I have a slide in the appendix that's relevant to this.
Let me, yeah, I think this one.
Uh, so for this project with like a medical necessity review, we found the
failure modes were broadly, you know, in clinical reasoning in interpreting the
rules that the AI needs to follow and actually in the medical record.
And let's say you see that a bunch of failure modes are in medical record
extraction, you can then sort of like a tackle those maybe at the same time,
because there might be that there's some sort of pipeline you want to build that,
uh, you know, users like OCR with large vision models and it supports both
table extraction and photo extraction.
Um, or, and, you know, in checkbox extraction, then you can kind of solve
multiple failure modes at the same time.
But I think that there's not really a hard and fast rule I can think of.
For, you know, prioritizing these, I guess it's, it's a bit of a, it's a bit of an
arts, you obviously have the metrics such as like how the, how are the failure
was impacting the metrics that you really care about.
You can look at that data.
Um, but then the interplay is a little nuanced and I think that's where, you
know, kind of like the PM or like maybe this domain expert PM plays this role of
like integrating their understanding of the wider system, the types of failure
modes, the data, but also their intuition for maybe some failure modes having
common causes of that sort of thing.
Um, to help steer things then.
That makes sense.
Um, I guess another question on this agentic rag part was, uh, someone had
to ask, you know, with multiple tool calls and agentic rag, uh, how do you
think about balancing the risk of degrading the user experience with latency
versus the need for more accurate multi-step reasoning?
And I guess here, you know, for most of your use cases, how latency
sensitive are these things?
Are you answering questions while the patient's there or is it like
running in the background and.
Yeah.
No, and I think, I think the critical thing here is basically like, how, how is
it being used?
Um, because I've seen, uh, I've seen systems where it runs overnight and
then the purpose is like it runs at nighttime and it comes back and then the
domain expert, like a nurse or a doctor will come in and they'll have that ready
for them and then they kind of like process it and their latency is like not
really an issue and actually you just want to prioritize the accuracy.
Um, but then equally in other cases, you might, it might be while a patient is in
the medical, in the doctor's room, you actually really want to prioritize quick
request responses and then it's more of like, and it's basically, you know, the
time is a trade off.
Um, and so probably like, I guess the, you know, this obviously is a case by
case, um, basis if you can get insight into your system and what, what that
trade off looks like.
So, you know, if you run a quicker version of your product, what's the
accuracy and then a slower version, what's the accuracy having that gives you the
insight that you can lean on to make these sorts of decisions.
But I think the primary driver is like, what's the specific, you know, context
of your application?
Like, uh, how's it being used and how time sensitive is that?
Yeah.
I think a lot of it really is not about like, is there latency or is there an
issue or an access sheet, but just now you have some budget and you just have to
allocate it in some effective way.
Yeah.
Sometimes doubly the latency isn't worth a 1% improvement in performance, but in
the medical context, I can imagine a lot of situations where that, that actually,
that actually is the case.
Um, yeah.
Down the line of, of actually doing more information retrieval, I think this is
a question that often people ask, which is how do you manage information
getting old or stale?
Right.
Does that mean like, does your domain experts like review the knowledge
rates itself and how do you think about that workflow?
Yeah.
Great question.
Um, I mean, one, one kind of quick thing you can do is you can, you can have,
um, like a weighted preference to more recent examples.
So let's say you have your domain knowledge base, you know, when all that
domain knowledge was created, you can.
Retrieve like up weight by the relative recency of that, and you can even
introduce cutoffs.
Like, let's say, um, you know, it's used in some particular workflow where
guidelines are changing really quickly, or there's like, I know it's in cancer
space and it's like new research coming out all the time.
You might want to like actively do hard cutoffs over a certain period of time.
But, um, yeah, I kind of think recency is, is one component of it.
Uh, there's maybe something else I was going to say, but I can't remember what
it was, um, yeah, maybe it'll come back to me.
Yeah.
One thing that I see here too is, uh, there's a really great talk that Glean
had done a couple of months ago where they're talking about this idea of
authority, right?
And it's actually the case that it's not all data.
What is not always the case that recency is the highest quality data.
And the example they gave was like the wifi password, like in Jira, like that
document is seven years old, but actually it is a document is like the most
referenced, I can imagine situations where, you know, the, the, like the
health records or something like that.
That might be something that is like very old, but so very valuable, but it
really highlights the case that information retrieval, authority, ranking.
These are all very important problems.
I'm thinking about the grad systems.
Yeah.
Actually, I remember the point I was going to make was also, um, yeah, I
think sometimes getting the, like extracting explicit metadata about the
data that you're getting.
So for example, um, you know, you might get very unstructured medical records
that you might receive, um, that don't really come with any metadata, but
actually somewhere in the record, it says like, what date did this encounter
come from?
If you can extract that and keep that representation, then that can be helpful.
And again, yeah, older things can absolutely be helpful.
Like it might be an encounter from 10 years ago that's super irrelevant.
Um, and yeah, or, or it might not be.
Um, I guess a question that I'm personally interested in, um, which is
around citations, like how do you, how do you guys think about citations and
references when you know, doing things like answer generation, like, do you
have any specific workflows around that, or do you just use like the anthropic
citation API?
Yeah, I think we've, we've used different approaches we've used, um, like before
the anthropic, uh, we were either kind of doing it ourselves and like prompting,
um, elements in certain ways to get it, to give those citations.
Uh, I think.
Yeah.
Which one is we've moved more towards actually just like using
anthropic, um, and their approach.
Cause I think that that works quite, quite nicely.
Um, I think what we, some takes things we've used in the past, um, that works
well is, uh, explicitly like kind of chunking things up, doing some like kind
of semantic similarity based chunking.
Um, and then just when you're prompting the model, getting it to call out these,
like, uh, UID, um, set chunks that it like used to make a decision.
And so the kind of procedure would be say, what's the relevant evidence, like
return the UIDs for these particular chunks, then like reason around that and
then make the final decision.
And so it's kind of, um, sequentially going through those and you
therefore get the citations, uh, from that as well.
Makes sense.
All right.
While I scan some of these remaining questions, um, one question that I
always like to ask our guests is what is the question you feel like folks are not
thinking about, are not asking themselves when building out these systems?
Yeah, it's a great question.
I think it probably would be, um, maybe maybe there's like central point.
I mentioned a few times of what does your system look like for incorporating
domain expertise?
Um, I think there's a bit of a bias towards, you know, looking at the kind
of latest fanciest, most sophisticated models and how you can, how you can use
them and maybe how they're like incrementally better on some important
benchmarks.
And I think that is relevant, but what I often see overlooked is, uh, what is
the process for like baking in, um, this knowledge and how do you actually like
really minimize the friction of that process such that this almost like kind
of happens automatically as part of you, like running, running your product.
Um, such that your system is like always improving and adapting.
Yeah, I think, I think that's sort of the main thing that I've noticed when,
when working, at least with engineering teams that are less sort of science
focused rather than the teams that are very much like mixing with data
scientists or have like a academic background.
It's around just believing that, you know, okay, once I build this thing,
once I can ship it and then I work on like the next set of features, but
instead it really is the case that with these systems, because they're so
probabilistic, you're always trying to push the distribution in some correct
direction and, you know, building out that flywheel is very important to, you
know, be able to systematically improve these, these, um, applications.
Um, with that in mind, I think, I think we're basically at time.
We give some time for folks to wrap up and then attend the next couple of
things they got to go to.
Um, but yeah, Chris, thank you so much again, you know, make another call out
to some of the links that you had shared.
If you want to book some time with Chris, uh, there's the QR code that you see on
the screen and if you want to check out your newsletter, it's a chrislovejoy.me
slash email.
And yeah, I think if you, I don't know if you can see the chat, but a lot of
great feedback, a lot of excited folks.
So Chris again, thank you very much.
Cheers guys.
Take care.
