If you're building a RAC application, you should be using hybrid search and re-rankers.
In today's episode of Systematically Improving RAC Applications, we're going to talk about the
importance of continuously improving RAC applications and the surprising effectiveness of BM-25 as a
baseline for many, many search tasks. What's surprising is that in a lot of tasks and
datasets, BM-25 actually is a better or higher baseline than vector search. Going from demo to
production doesn't mean you make one big leap to perfection. It's about continuously improving
your application with LAND-CB. You can find it in our documentation and how to actually use the
hybrid search in practice. What you're essentially doing is, hey, everyone, we're going to talk about
a particular topic on improving your RAC systems called hybrid search. This is sort of split into
three different components, multiple recallers, hybrid search techniques, and then re-ranking.
We'll dive into it and then we'll see some practical results that we've seen ourselves.
If you have problems seeing the slides, let me know. I'm going to assume the screen share is
working. Hey, everyone. My name is Chang-Shih. I'm the CEO and co-founder of LAND-CB. Thank you for
being LAND-CB users and would love to hear your feedback either on the open source or if you've
signed up for the private preview for LAND-CB Cloud. If we can make it better for you somehow,
or if there are pain points that you wish you didn't have to fight, please let me know. On
Twitter, this is my handle. Follow me. I'm mostly tweeting about vector search, AI, machine learning,
and working with data. These days, I spend about equal time tweeting and coding, although I think
this was a few months ago, so I probably spend more time tweeting now than working on GitHub.
I've been working in the data tool space for about two decades making tools for data scientists and
machine learning engineers. I was one of the original co-authors of Pandas. I spent a bunch
of time in big data and then recommender systems. My last job at TubiTV, a streaming company,
was what gave me the original idea to start LAND-CB to make it easier to work with multi-bottled data
for machine learning and AI. I'm using this as an umbrella term to include everything from
embeddings and text to images, videos, and beyond. This year, we talked to a lot of folks putting
RAG and semantic search AI native applications into production. I think even though we've made
a lot of progress since last year, I think there's still a pretty significant demo to production gap
in RAG. I think this is why I'm really excited to be here, because I think the goal of this course
is to basically address this gap in a very pragmatic and practical way. What are people
fighting with? Quality of the retrieval. It's pretty easy to just throw up simple vector search
and throw up a demo. You get maybe 50-60% accuracy. How do you get to that 90% accuracy or beyond
where that's good enough for production? Then one thing we're seeing is going from demo to production
doesn't mean you make one big leap to perfection. It's about continuously improving your application,
which also means things that you guys have probably covered or will cover around evals
and different components of the system that you can tune. The way I think about this as a self-
improvement loop is a composable system for the different parts of a RAG application, from
chunking to the retrieval to the storage to the embedding space itself. All of these things
should have well-working components that work well with each other. Then you have user feedback
and a feedback loop where you can use that to fine tune off your processes. That feedback loop,
obviously coupled with evals and fine-tuning processes, is what gets you this self-improvement.
For this short talk, we're only going to focus on a small part of that system,
which is around hybrid search and re-ranking to improve the quality of retrieval. One of the
things when I talk to folks who are asking me for advice on how to build RAG applications,
especially vector search, is I tell them maybe don't start with vector search and actually start
with full-tech search or BM25. Maybe as a CEO of a vector database company, maybe I shouldn't be
saying that, but in terms of making high-quality AI applications with the least amount of effort,
this is a great baseline to start. BM25 has been around for a long time and it's really high
quality. If you see as much results as we do, what's surprising is that in a lot of tasks and
datasets, BM25 actually is a better or higher baseline than vector search. For example, in the
screenshot, you'll see that FTS here on the bottom actually outperforms vector search here
on the hit rate metric. You'll never really know for sure which is going to be better in the outset,
but BM25 is so easy to get started that I always recommend that as a first baseline.
I'm not going to bother explaining how vector search works. I'm kind of assuming you guys already
went over that in the course. Happy to provide more detail if folks are still interested,
but I will kind of go through a little bit on what BM25 and full-tech search does just as a
refresher. I want to use this as a way to help you guys build intuition on why BM25 works well and
how it can be complementary to vector search. BM25 stands for best match. If I remember correctly,
BM means it was the 25th generation of this particular algorithm. BM25 was released I think
in 1994, 1995. It's been around for a long time. Despite recent claims, it has not been beaten
and for full-tech search, and it is still the king for text-based search. The scoring formula
for a particular query in a particular document is split into two sort of, this is a simplified
picture, but split into two terms. One is the IDF term, which is the inverted document frequency,
and the other one is the term frequency. The second term in this score formula is about the
frequency of occurrences of your query, and the first IDF term is about how, it ends up being
about how rare your term is across all of the documents. And so here, rarity matters, and
I'm not going to go deep into the formula, but the thing that's worth highlighting here is that
if you have terms that are rare across your corpus, that actually boosts the score. And so
if you're searching for like an exact match or a syntactic match across your corpus, this is
probably kind of the intuition that you can think about as to why sometimes BM25 will actually work
better. And it's not strictly, you know, one will not strictly dominate the other across all queries
and all documents, and this is great because then this gives us an opportunity to actually
put these two together. Yeah, the number of iterations definitely will increase. I think
most recent attempt was an algorithm called BM42, which I'm not sure if they've iterated on it that
many times, but it was more of a HHK is guided to the galaxy reference. Hey, are your rag applications
falling short despite using the latest frameworks and models? You're not alone. I'm Jason Liu, and
I've helped a dozen companies improve their AI applications. I've developed a systematic approach
that delivers results. If you want to check it out, join my free six week email course and learn the
techniques I use in my own consulting practice. That way you can stop guessing at what works
and measure what matters. Just check out improvingrag.com.
So one thing with, you know, I talk a lot about BM25, you know, full text search works really well.
Well, do we even need vector search? So one is the BM25 does not capture semantic meaning. So the
sort of a grossly simplified way to think about it is, you know, if you search for the term person,
you'll get person, persons, any document that has the word person from full text search. But
what you won't get is, you know, words that are semantically similar, like customer or maybe user
or maybe early adopter. Right. And these are the things that we can rely on vector search to return
semantic meaning. Vector search also tends to have more predictable latency. So vectors,
embedding vectors are dense vectors and more or less the latency of every query for the same
parameters is going to be the same. Whereas for BM25, because it's sparse and depending on the
number of terms that are in the sparse vectors, that latency can actually vary a little bit more.
And of course, as I mentioned, vector search and BM25 are complementary. They don't actually,
they're not necessarily mutually exclusive. And that sort of brings us to the next question,
which is, okay, if we do both BM25 in vector search, right, we're going to get multiple
results sets. And if we only want the top 10 or the top three to feed into generation,
how do we actually combine those results? And how do we think about the ordering of those things?
And this is where a hybrid search comes in. The way I think about hybrid search is kind of two,
there's two ways to combine these results. One is rank fusion or reciprocal rank fusion. And the
other one is model-based approach around using re-ranking models. I'm not sure if this is already
covered in the course. If this is, please just interrupt me if this is already old hat, but
essentially this is the formula for reciprocal rank fusion and essentially it weights. So this
is the sum of the ranks across all of your recallers. So here we're going to be talking
about two, but if you look at the literature out there, there's actually even more retrieval
techniques with, you know, graph-based graph databases, other filtering techniques, and things
that are much more niche to particular use cases. And so if you have multiple recall results,
whether that's multiple retrieval techniques or embedding models, doesn't matter. You take the
local rank of your, of each result and you, you add them up and then you take this,
this inverted term here. K is sort of a magic constant that in practice, I think the most
common setting is 60, but it can differ depending on your application. Right. And then the,
the R here is the particular recaller. The way to think about this is one, we don't want to use the
raw like distance scores or the similarity scores that comes out of each recaller, because those
results, those scores aren't comparable to each other. And so you can't really be aggregating them
together, comparing them with each other. Instead we'll use the ranks. And then two, the way to
aggregate these ranks by using this formula is so that you, when multiple recallers rank the same
results higher than the total rank will also be higher for that particular document. Right. For
this kind of a re-ranking method, it is pretty fast. There's no additional model. The formula is
very easy to compute. The win, the winning aspects here for reciprocal rank fusion is just really
simple and it's really fast to do. Right. So if you want better or more accurate results, you may
want to end up using a model. Model based re-rankers will use, typically use the retrieved text rather
than the scores from each, from each recaller. So these re-ranker models, it's actually a pretty,
pretty trodden technique from recommender system land. And these models tend to be a little bit more
expensive. So you're, what you're doing is you're running the ranking process on this,
this expensive model on a much smaller set of documents. Typically, like if you're getting the
top 10 from, you know, two or three recallers, right. You're re-ranking 30 documents out of
maybe 10 million or 50 million or something like that. And what we see people do is there's two
flavors. One, you can use open source models from Hugging Face, CrossEncoder, Colbert, as BGE,
dedicated BGE re-ranker models. You can prompt chat GPT or GPT into becoming a re-ranker as well,
which is kind of, which is kind of interesting. And then there are dedicated third-party APIs.
So Cohair is probably the original one that had a re-ranker API and that works very well.
Gina AI also released a new one and then it was quickly followed by Cohair's new re-ranker model.
We've done some experiments so we can, this is sort of an unpublished
blog post that we're almost ready to hit release on. But essentially what we did was look at two
data sets, SQUAD, which is the Stanford 2NA data set and the Lamu2Review data set. Essentially
looking at vector search, full-tech search, and then hybrid search and each option with different
re-rankers. So if you look at, for the SQUAD one, if you look at just pure vector search,
we're getting somewhere around like 80, 81.3 for hit rate. And then the best here option is at the
bottom here with a hybrid search using both of them and then re-ranked using Cohair. And that
one is you get a good 10 points, 11 points in hit rate improvement, which is pretty substantial.
We'll be publishing these results pretty soon and you'll be able to take a look at the full
results here. Part of this is we have a, a, you created a weights and biases project with all of
the different results. I think we'll be, I'm not sure if this is shared here, but it's probably
something that you can kind of follow along. And then all of the code you can find in LantzDB slash
ragged, ragged repository with different evaluators and you can run it real quick is how do you
actually use re hybrid search and re-ranking. So this is a pretty easy code snippet. So one is
you specify hybrid as the query type here, and then you add a re-ranker API call and you can use
Cohair or other things. Thanks for watching. If you liked that video, make sure to like and subscribe.
And if you want to learn more, check out improvingrag.com. We're going to talk about
the foundations and not frameworks. Over six emails, you're going to learn how to overcome
absence blindness, as well as how to fine tune language models, understanding diverse query types,
improving multimodal rag, and ultimately smart question routing and build up UX that collects
user feedback. Just check out improvingrag.com and fill out this quick email address at the bottom.
Thanks.
