Nick went a little bit viral on his essay, why I no longer recommend
a rag for autonomous agents.
I think the idea here is that retrieval is supposed to sharpen your coding
agent's ability to have memory and do all this stuff, but really it seems like,
you know, everyone has come to the conclusion that for the agentic use
cases around code generation, embedding search is no longer something that
is being recommended by a lot of people.
Nick is the head of AI at Klein, one of the open source coding agents.
I think it's like millions now of downloads on US code.
And so if you want to check that out, it's Klein.bot.
I think your essay really sparked a lot of conversation on Twitter
about rag being dead.
And I feel like this is a fun way to respond to some of that
conversation as well.
I'm really excited for you to share a little more and then go
into questions afterwards.
Nick, the floor is yours.
Yeah, thanks so much, Jason.
I've been, I've been following you for a while actually, and I'm a big fan.
More, more than anything, I think you're a smart guy and I think, you know, I
really enjoy the way that you write.
I think writing is such, like an under emphasized skill these days.
And that's like one of the main reasons I appreciate you and why I enjoy the
timeline, following you on the timeline.
So yeah, thanks for, thanks for the introduction and thanks for
inviting me to come chat.
So yeah, my, my article on the death of rag, why I no longer recommend rag for
autonomous coding agents, they cause a little bit of a stir and I kind of want
to dive into what sparked all of this.
What actually sparked initially, why, why I initially wrote that article is
because I was in, I was in a call with, with this enterprise that wanted to,
that they were searching for their agent's a coding tool that they were going to use.
And they were going through a procurement process.
And one of the products they were looking at was fine.
And I was in, I happened to be in this meeting with one of our sales guys.
We were talking to this company.
They're a very big company with thousands of engineers.
And their decision-making process was remarkably naive, in my opinion, where
it was almost like they were going through a checklist, like, Hey, do you have this?
Do you have this?
Do you have this?
And one of the questions they asked was, Hey, do you guys do rag?
And so, you know, like, it was like such a weird question to me, but like, they
were like considering this as like part of their requirements, but they were like,
they were like considering this as like part of their requirements.
And essentially like in the meeting, I asked them like, Hey, like why,
why do you guys want this?
Like, are you guys sure you actually want this?
And the answer they gave me was like, well, isn't it good for large coding,
like large code bases or something?
Um, so that kind of prompted me to, to write this, this article where kind of
put all the thoughts that we're thinking about internally, I climb and that the
thoughts that I'm the thing you for a while rep to articulate them and actually
write them down and, um, the article.
Kind of blew up on Twitter on X, um, and kind of started this
discussion, um, in the whole industry.
So let's kind of dive into it.
So the original promise of rag, uh, back in like 2023, you had, um, it was kind of
like a gold rush with all of these vector database companies like pine cone.
And they famously came out with like this thing called the O P stack, which is
like the open AI pine cone stack.
This is like way back in the day.
And they position themselves like, Hey, we give long-term memory to your AI.
Back then context windows are very narrow, very short.
And they promised to kind of ground responses in real documents and real
data, saving, uh, you know, reducing hallucinations, pairing models with,
uh, like vector database.
They kind of claim that they were going to.
The meal, a long-term memory for these agents.
So all of a sudden, and this is like a lot of buzzwords around the time where
there's like, Oh, like you have an infinite context window now, but now that
you have rag, it's like a one size fits all solution that you have infinite memory.
Um, and then another claim that they made was that instead of training on very kind
of like fine tuning on your specific use case, you could now plug your own data
and get accurate answers out of the box.
So everyone invested in this promise, um, from Andreessen Horowitz to Sequoia,
it's Venmo Ventures, to Benchware Capital.
I could go down the list and not all the money, obviously went to Pinecone.
You had other vector databases like WeeVee, A Chroma, Qdrain,
and like, like hundreds of others.
So, you know, at the time it was like very clear, like there, there's a lot
of investor interest in this.
A lot of people are invested in this story and this promise.
And I think that's part of the reason why when I wrote my article, there was a lot
of this, it was almost like sunk cost fallacy where like a lot of these people
that were deeply invested came out of the woodwork and kind of were responding.
Um, so I will say back then, back in the day, it actually worked.
I ended up building Vault, which was a popular open source project at the time
to help people ingest thousands of documents, create their own knowledge
bases and get structured outputs.
Um, I actually ended up making a little demo website for this open
source project called Vault.
Uh, and immediately my servers were blowing up.
I had tons of people just using the web app.
I had tons of people just using the website, even though I was strongly pushing
everyone to like, Hey, just go set this code up yourself.
It's open source.
Most people ended up using the website.
Immediately I burned through my like $250 opening.
I quote at the time.
Um, and actually my servers ended up crashing because of the load.
So I ended up like building all these systems to handle scaling, added a
subscription layer on top of it to actually charge people because I wasn't
going to front the cost for it.
If they really wanted to use the website, they were going to have to pay me for it.
Started getting thousands of subscribers, uh, on this Vault website.
And actually I had a number of, uh, AI companies reach out to me, um, to ask
me like, Hey, how do we build rag?
How do we improve our rag pipelines?
And that led me to, into like consultation for a lot of recently funded AI startups.
And I really became a professional.
Like I, I know the ins and outs of rag.
I know what it takes to improve a rag pipeline.
It's a fundamentally non-deterministic system.
So the way you go about improving it is non-trivial.
Um, a lot of people came to me and they were like, Hey, I feel
like it's not working very well.
How do I improve this?
And you know, then you go down the rabbit hole of, well, okay, what data are
you collecting on your rag pipeline?
Are you collecting cosine similarity scores?
Are you, do you have a reranker?
Are you collecting reranker scores?
And then going into the art of improving rag applications.
Yeah.
And Jason has written a lot about this and I'm pretty much on the same page.
It really is an art form.
There's a lot that goes into it.
And if you really do need it, it's worth it.
Um, but I no longer recommend rag for coding agents specifically.
And at Klein, I became like the number one advocate against using rag actually,
even though, you know, rag has been my bread and butter for so long.
I'm just like actively anti rag, uh, at Klein.
And I think in general for any coding agent, um, company startup, we're all
thinking about the same things here in the industry and let's dive into it.
So this was the article that I wrote.
I have a link here in the slides.
Um, but it was called why I no longer recommend rag for autonomous coding agents.
I wrote this in May and I talk about all the things that I'm going to
be talking about in this talk.
Um, at kind of like a more broad bubble.
And, you know, the essential thesis is that rag isn't needed for coding agents.
So code is inherently logical and structured.
Um, I mean, hopefully your code is logical and structured.
Uh, you don't need to index your whole code base anymore, um, which is
a massive security nightmare.
Um, there's actually, you could actually reverse an embedding and
get the original contents of it.
So it's not actually like a lot of people consider it like secure, like
it's like some kind of hash of your data.
And it really isn't.
You can reverse engineer any, any embedding and pretty much get the original contents.
And, you know, you got to store all these embeddings somewhere.
If you're not storing them locally, then you have to keep them updated.
Then you have to improve your rag pipelines and go into that whole process of,
you know, cosine similarity scores and collecting this data and improving it.
You can also just ask your coding agent, like Klein in this case, to find the
relevant code and kind of like in these screenshots, I show I'm showing like a real
example, like literally yesterday, I was using Klein to look into some GitHub
issue that someone mentioned and we had this discussion in our Slack and I just
pasted a copy and pasted the whole discussion in the Slack where there was
like a link to the original code.
That was problematic.
And I gave it to Klein and Klein just started going through and I told Klein,
like, Hey, you have access to the GH terminal command.
You can go ahead and use that.
And with access to the terminal, Klein could basically grep and use GH to pull
in the link, read through the, read through the original diff of the original
PR that caused the bug, look through the code that that's current, um, you know,
that's current, um, use grep to find anything else and Klein went through,
came up with a plan to fix it.
And I just switched to act mode and Klein went, went ahead and fixed the issue for me.
And, you know, this is a very common life cycle of a coding agent task where you
have a plan mode and then you have an act mode and it's this plan and act paradigm
that's becoming more and more popular with Klein.
We actually introduced this plan and act paradigm and we're starting to see a lot
of other coding agents follow, follow suit.
So recently, I think famously cloud code added a plan and act mode.
Um, so this is like becoming a common pattern for coding agents and the plan
mode is basically all of the data gathering necessary, all bringing everything
in context that's necessary to solve the problem.
And you'll notice that rag isn't really a part of any of this.
Oh, and really quick, just backing up a little bit.
When I'm talking about rag, I'm talking about what the original, like, I know the
term has been co-opted a little bit and I got a lot of criticism about my article.
Even though I clarified this a number of times that rag is just any
retrieval augmented generation.
So like even this, you're still doing rag technically.
That's a very common response that I hear.
And I'm specifically talking about embedding search.
I'm specifically talking about indexing and embeddings and cosine similarity
and re-rankers and that kind of thing.
Um, and what most people in industry that were invested in this narrative and, and
pine cone and all these people, like all those articles that I referenced, they
were all talking about this form of rag.
So when I, when I say rag, I'm talking about embeddings and you, you'll notice
that embedding search isn't a part of this at all, right?
Uh, you have, you might use the terminal to use grep.
You might search the code base using, uh, various tools, read file tool.
What we do at Klein is we give.
Klein, like an overarching view of the file tree, um, as well as some like basic
AST info and Klein just goes, goes through and reads, reads files, uses
grep and basic, um, like what they see an engineer would do really when you show
a senior engineer, a new code base, what do they do?
They look at the folder structure.
They look at the names of the folders.
They look at the files.
They might read in a file and see like, okay, this file imports this other file.
Let's go check out what this other file that it imports has.
And then you generally build an understanding using this
agentic discovery approach.
And, you know, it works remarkably well.
Klein just reads things in a context, gets all the information he needs to come
up with a robust plan, and you really want to make sure you're investing in that plan
phase to come up with a very rock solid plan, and then you're ready to switch an
act mode and actually implement.
So after I wrote my article, um, shortly after pine cone responded with this
article on their page where they're, they're basically like kind of coping,
uh, for lack of a better word, uh, with the contents of my article.
And they said things like, uh, rag isn't dead.
It's critical.
They kind of downplayed a lot of my points and didn't really even address me.
They just kind of try to like marginalize all the points that I was making.
And he said, the Prague isn't rag.
It's you, uh, that you're not using rag effectively.
Um, they said hallucinations.
What about hallucinations?
Like you need rag to avoid hallucinations when it's like hallucinations are like,
frankly, they're not even a pro.
Like I've never seen it be a problem working at fine.
Um, because you're reading in all of these files and all like all of this
context that hallucinations hardly ever happened and also like we set the
temperature to zero, um, or, or like pretty much all of our providers.
So that that's just like, I think that's like a moot point and I
think it's very outdated.
And then a gentic rag, they came up with this kind of new buzz term where they
said, well, Hey, like there's traditional rag and like, we agree that was bad,
but a gentic rag, it's so much better.
And they came up with this like diagram, um, with like all of these like little,
you know, like just like to show you like how complex they're like their
system that they're proposing is like, they made it for me, you know, they,
they showed the diagram and like, they're showing off this, this pipeline.
And my response to that was basically like, yeah, you're solving
22, 2022 problems with 2023 tech.
Everything that they call a limitation, like hallucinations, outdated
knowledge or context limits.
It's totally irrelevant today with flagship models and model context
protocol, MCP servers, like, you know, they mentioned like documentation is
like, we have MCP for that.
We have tools that you can bring in that just pull in the most relevant
documentation, the most recent documentation, and essentially rag is just
a bloated workaround for issues that don't really exist anymore in practice.
Um, they talk about control.
Um, and they frame and they frame rag that it's safer and more trustworthy.
But with a coding agent, you don't need citation graphs.
You need judgment and you need just like logical progression
reading through the code base.
And I actually, it improves the agent's execution for the agent to come about
and come up with a plan organically instead of having this like schizophrenic
mind map of four dimensional clustered embeddings, like floating around in its
head, you know, it really is a source of distraction for an agent to run this
search and they propose the agentic rag to like run this search and just have
like a whole bunch of like blusters from all over the place, surface of like
chunked code that is just like, like you get like a small snippet of code.
And even if you work, like, even if you work like really hard on your chunking
algorithm and make sure that like your chunks are like immaculately split up and
segmented, so you get like perfect functions and it's just like beautiful
chunking, even then you're getting chunks surface from all over the code base.
And your, your poor agent is just like, you know, dealing with all these chunks,
trying to figure, like trying to make sense out of it.
And it ends up being a fundamental like distraction for your coding agent.
That's why I titled this talk, like stop distracting your coding agents, just let
them do what they think is necessary and let them follow their own train of thought.
We call this at climate, we call this narrative integrity, where every task is
kind of like a story where it might be a very boring story, but the story has,
has to make sense.
The story is coherent where every step of the way, you know, like, Hey,
Klein, you started out with a task that this like protagonist, which is Klein,
this coding agent needs to overcome.
You start with the kind of the setting of the story where Klein is exploring
the code base, reading in files in full.
We don't even read in like parts of files.
We just look, we're very context heavy, taking the entire file, loaded into
context, understand the setting, understand where the story is taking place.
When we come over the plan on how to overcome the central issue of the story,
which is the task that the user came with.
And because these LLMs are really good at predicting the next token, if the
story makes sense, they can continue the story in a logical way and eventually
come to the resolution, which is it solving your task.
And frankly, yeah, like this agentic ragged approach that Pinecone proposed,
it just sounds like slapping agentic on top of an outdated solution.
And it just adds so much complexity.
And now you're maintaining the system and yeah, rag really is this black hole.
And you could set, you can sync endless resources into it and try to improve,
have like marginal improvements to your rag pipeline.
And at Klein, I'm just like, what I propose is you just zoom out and take
a totally different approach, drop all of that, remove all of that from your code.
If you already have it, just stop maintaining it, stop coping and just go fully agentic.
So this kind of leads me into the bitter lesson where famously Boris from
Cloud Code actually found this clip from his Latent Space podcast, which by the way,
myself and Saud, the CEO of Klein, we recently recorded a podcast, Latent Space,
that's going to be out soon.
So we're going to be talking about similar things in that podcast, but Boris was on
there from Cloud Code and Boris is like basically like the creator of Cloud Code.
Cloud Code is his brainchild.
And even he in this podcast talked about rag and how they tried it at Cloud Code.
And it was just disappointing.
And they found that agentic exploration of the code base just works so much better.
And he talks a lot about the bitter lesson where modern models don't really need rag
anymore. You can feed in real files that rag just distracts the model, if anything,
it just subtracts from the model's intelligence.
And it's a maintenance nightmare.
He talked a lot about like the security implications of it.
And they ended up just throwing it all out after experimenting with rag, building
like an early rag system.
And they just gave access to tools like grep and basic read file functionality.
And Cloud Code was able to do the rest.
So my kind of take on the bitter lesson is that essentially what it means is that the
application layer is shrinking and all this code that you write like back in the day,
like with traditional ML, you needed like a big harness, you need like a lot of code
to make traditional ML useful for people to actually productize it.
With LLMs, you still need a decent amount of code, but it's definitely less now than
before. You just kind of hook in some APIs with OpenAI or Anthropic or Gemini, and you're
able to make something very useful.
And the bitter lesson to me, what it really means is that this application layer is just
shrinking over time.
Every day is just growing smaller and smaller.
And instead of trying to cope with that, instead of trying to hang on to these systems that
you've built, which a lot of engineers, I see you doing this, where they're really holding
on, you know, they're still maintaining these systems.
It really is like a form of like delusion or denial that they're still hanging on to
this. But really, yeah, just throw it all out.
Let the model do its job.
Stop trying to get in the way of the model.
It's almost like cleaning a mirror and letting more light shine through.
Right. And this applies to more than just RAG.
And this is like probably a topic for another talk.
But I've written about this as well for Fast Apply.
I wrote a similar article.
This applies to RAG.
This applies to Fast Apply.
It even applies to fancy static analysis tools like recently CodeGen.
Their whole bread and butter for years was building these like knowledge graphs of code
that you could query with like a SQL database or like almost like a SQL query string.
And even that, they came out and they did this like full capitulation.
They came out on the timeline and they were like, yeah, we spent like two years building
this crazy, like these fancy static analysis tools, these knowledge graphs for code.
And a special query language to be able to query it.
And we ended up throwing all of it out and just like, like essentially forking client.
I don't know if they actually forked client, but they ended up just like doing what we're doing now.
So, and then the next kind of the jury is still out on this, but like I am tentatively on the side
that multi-agents and sub-agents, it's going to follow a similar pattern where you're not going
to need any of this stuff.
You're just going to let the flagship model do its job.
So I will give a kind of short disclaimer.
That's not a disclaimer where RAG can still be useful.
I think RAG can still be useful if you're trying to keep things cheap.
If your business model revolves around making money off of inference, RAG can make sense.
If you're trying to save tokens and squeeze margins, like if you're trying to like charge
like a $20 per month subscription for your users and you're building a coding agent,
you'll quickly find that coding agents are very expensive.
They're very context heavy.
They burn a lot of tokens.
And one way you can go about kind of doing a shortcut and saving on some of these costs is using RAG.
Instead of reading in entire files, you just kind of have this RAG step and bring things
into context that way.
And yeah, you get like perfunctory performance.
I think Cursor famously employs this strategy.
And it makes sense because they charge you $20 per month subscription.
We don't do this at Klein from the very beginning at Klein.
We would just bring your own API keys and you know, you Klein however you like.
And we just go full context heavy and we don't take any shortcuts or any workarounds around context.
And we find that it works just so much better for agent to coding.
But if you're kind of stuck in this business model where you need to make ends meet and you're
charging this flat subscription rate and you have these credits and all this other stuff going on,
then RAG can make sense.
And also for the traditional use case of like vaults and things that I've built in the past, I think it
can still make sense for human readable documents, maybe legal documents.
But even then, I'm starting to think about like recently I used Klein.
I told Klein about like there's this LLM.txt document somewhere.
It was for Adio.
I was trying to hook up some more systems to the Adio CRM and have automatic ingestion of accounts.
So I gave Klein the LLM.txt for Adio and it's basically a long, it's like all of the documentation
for the Adio API.
But unlike a normal LLM.txt where everything is just in this one site, in this one document, it
basically had like a bunch of links to categories of like, okay, here's the person category, here's
the company category.
And for each one of those, it linked to another Markdown document where it would go and have other
sections and other API endpoints to explore.
And basically I gave Klein this original document, Klein found it's like, oh, okay, I need to look
the organization thing, hold in that link using the Markdown, the Markdownify MCP server.
And basically we saw a Gentic exploration even in a human readable context with like just
documentation where you have like a kind of directory list of the high level categories.
And if your documents are somewhat hierarchical and you have them in this like logical folder
structure, all of the same rules apply.
So even there, RAG wasn't needed.
But I could see some cases where you have like maybe a massive data lake where it's unstructured
and it's just like a whole bunch of human readable text.
You know, RAG could be useful there.
So that's pretty much that's my talk.
I'm happy to open it up for questions.
But yeah.
It's funny you talking about this PDF case where I think even now for very large data
sets, it still makes sense to do like RAG over PDFs.
But even now, some of the tools we've been implementing is, you know, when you retrieve,
you retrieve a page object from a document field and then you can still then traverse to a
certain document, view a certain page.
And then I'll read things that said, oh, this mentions appendix 162.
I'll go to table of contents and then go to page 162 in appendix.
And even in those cases, I find that having this portfolio of tools is still very useful.
Maybe RAG is needed in the planning step.
But once you are able to implement these, like go to page, go to the next page, go to the
table of contents.
Yeah, you tend to sort of mimic the behavior of these domain experts, right?
Which is again, sort of processing data the way that humans are used to processing data.
I guess the first question really is like, what do you recommend RAG for?
I think we've somewhat answered that.
But if you have any other thoughts, I would love to hear them out.
Yeah, like again, if you're, if you need to save costs and you want like perfunctory
performance, that's not like truly intelligent.
That's not like super high quality.
For things like I see a lot of like these like review agents on GitHub where they have
to review like thousands of PRs.
And the cost for that can't really be justifiable in those cases for a lot of the free
use, free tiers.
It's like, yeah, that can make sense where it's like uses like a basic form of RAG and a
smaller model to answer questions, basic questions and respond to GitHub issues.
Yeah, like massive data lakes, things like that can make sense.
So, you know, I wouldn't say it's fully dead, but for intelligent coding agents, for like
serious engineering teams, I wouldn't trust my production code base with an agent that
uses RAG.
I guess if I played double advocate gear, what about the situations where even the code
base deals like a massive data lake?
Like, I'm curious.
I don't think I've seen anyone sort of work with agents on like, you know, like I'm really
curious what the Google or like the Facebook like monorepo looks like.
But I don't know if you have any thoughts there.
Yeah, even at Facebook, we had to have, we had to have like our own grep.
Yeah, I would say like Klein, a lot of these enterprises that are coming to us, we
basically like early on we have, we didn't have any enterprise products and we're actually
launching our enterprise product like this week.
But a few months ago, we didn't have it and we just like put up a website with like a
forum where enterprises could go and sign up.
And immediately we started getting flooded with like all these enterprises and we started
getting booking meetings with, you know, Fortune 5 companies, not even 500, but like
massive companies like massive engineering teams and massive code bases coming to us
saying like, hey, we already have hundreds of engineers using Klein in our organization
because you guys are open source and we pass like the security audits, like really easy
to use Klein at these organizations.
And they're like, this is a fire that we need to put out.
This is like actually really bad because we have no idea which API keys our engineers
are using, like where they're sending their data, how much money they're spending,
we have no control over this.
Please just give us an enterprise product.
Let us give you money to make an enterprise product so that we can actually manage this.
And all of them say that Klein works remarkably well in massive code bases with the
basic tools that Klein already has.
And one of these things is like grep.
If you have your own form of greps like at Meta or whatever, you can just either hook in
an MCP server for that or give it a special Klein rules file that explains like how to
use this tool in the terminal so that Klein just knows it out of the box.
And we also do like these like basic like, you know, folder structures and a tree view
for Klein and like basically like some basic ASD stuff and Klein just handles all that
very well. And if you give it like a starting point, then even better.
Klein can find what it's working with a lot faster.
So you're basically just trying to reduce that planning phase time down to where Klein
can more quickly figure out like where the relevant stuff is.
And really that part is fairly trivial, even in a very large code base.
That's good to hear.
I guess this question, it's almost baking into two parts, but can knowledge graphs or
other forms of indexing help me ditch rag?
In terms of vector databases for non-coding use cases, I have my general thoughts there,
but I'm curious where your head is at for something like this knowledge graphs.
Yeah, like what's remarkable to me is like, you know, I was on the knowledge graph team
at Meta and like.
I was bullish for a long time for like using knowledge graphs for input in these
agentic workflows.
But like I said, like code gen, like literally yesterday, the code gen founder, J
Hack came out and said like, hey, our whole bread and butter is like building these
knowledge graphs.
We've been trying to build a coding agent using it and it's just like, it just worked
terribly. Like we just threw it all out.
And, you know, this they overcame like all of this, you know, all of this work and they
themselves said that it didn't work.
Like, you know, I'm starting to.
You know, think again about about knowledge graphs in general.
So I think the jury, the jury is still out, but it's not looking good.
Yeah, on my side, I feel like the the harder thing is that if you write.
The AST is well-defined knowledge graph that is very Lindy across many, like
decades, whereas if you're building your own custom system, you need to define this
taxonomy.
And I think the jury's out on whether your team is aware enough of the problem to
actually build the right syntax.
Right.
It's it's but if you know exactly how things are being used and exactly how things
are being traversed, it does make sense.
But I just don't like it.
It's hard to find people who are good at modeling things that way.
To this point, I'm also curious, what is your experience with using the AST and the
syntax trees for these coding agents?
Like does client have access to this kind of information?
Client does have access to this information and a client even has a tool that you can
use that that uses like this, like AST to list like code definitions and things like
that. And frankly, client doesn't really use it that often.
And it's not actually like used like a lot or and it's not very necessary, I'd say
say in some cases that can be helpful.
But in most cases, it's like, hey, if you need to find a code definition, you have
the imports at the top of the file, you can go and find it.
So even that, you know, might end up dying out to this bitter lesson concepts.
And one last note on knowledge graphs is.
I think another kind of problem with it is that these models aren't really trained
to use these tools.
These models, they're trained to do like the standard coding agent stuff, but
they're not really trained to use like your custom knowledge graph.
So maybe like.
If if these models are trained for that use case, you can see better performance.
But, you know, out of the box, I don't think it's going to be as good.
That makes sense. Yeah, I sometimes always feel like the agent is using the arguments
wrong. I wish I had some access to that language server to figure out like, what is
the definition of this? If you know, you can write a function and put in the prompt.
But yeah, I can imagine like has cloud code sort of gets all the data out of
Sonnet 4 to fine tune.
Sonnet 4 will just become better.
And then all coding agents that use things like Sonnet will just improve over time.
Oh, here's a good question.
What is your recommendation on maintaining context in long running coding agent tasks?
I'm really specifically curious about you, whether or not you believe in like compacting threads.
Yeah.
So at Incline, we have a few slash commands you can use.
You can use the small slash command to compact.
Another thing you could do is slash new task, which I use a lot actually, where you
can basically do this task handoff process, where it's like, if you're starting to
approach the capacity of a like a token context window, you can run slash new task.
And client basically comes up with like a summary of everything that was done so far,
like as you would to, you know, a new engineer that's just like taking the task from
here, here onwards, passing off the context to a brand new task and doing context
management that way.
And at Client, we actually, we had a big blog post where we wrote about like our,
like before summarization, what we kind of did by default was this like very
algorithmic way of truncating context where we remove like duplicate file reads.
We really try to maintain narrative integrity and clean up the context that way.
And what we're finding now is that actually like, yeah, summarization just like works
better and you can like in our internal testing, you can just like have these like
long running tasks with like resets of the context window, like many times over with
just like a very detailed summary and cloud code, Boris from cloud code said the
same thing in his talk.
So I think surprisingly the better lesson also applies to context management.
I think like all of our clever ideas about like truncation and context management is
starting to pan out that that's the basic summarization works really well.
And especially internally, we're testing like to do's like a, like we're doing it a
little bit differently.
We have our own kind of way of doing it.
And it's internally, it's been looking very impressive actually, where we get even
better performance than like cloud code for very long running tasks where you can just
like one shot like a very long running task.
If you have summarization as well as like a little scratch pad with to do's where the
agent can just like mark off what it's done and what is left to do, kind of keeping it
on track that way.
Yeah, one thing I always also say is the performance difference between asking for
some piece of code to be written and just doing like any amount of test driven development.
I get like massively different results.
It's one of them to say, okay, like implement this new feature, maintain backwards
compatibility, implement this feature, here's a script and you run it and it fails.
You've done something wrong.
Like that's the difference between sort of like supervising something versus like
actually coming back in 20 minutes and knowing that the thing still works with
summarization.
That has been a huge thing as well.
Let's go to the next question.
What's your take on RAG when not applied to coding agents?
For example, early on for large enterprise document core practices to chat with in QA
against like RSPs and whatnot.
I think we generally answer this.
It is very much the case that for large data sets, RAG is a different use case.
But even then I have been seeing, again, just it's not about whether or not you use
embedding search or not.
It's just whether or not it makes sense for your budget of latency, content
performance.
And there has been a lot of contexts now where we have tools to do semantic search to
build the initial context.
And then afterwards we have tools for traversal.
Once we know that these seven PDFs out of the 1 million PDFs about this construction
building are important, then it becomes things like read the next page or like go to the
link or like revisit chapter seven.
Those things have been really, really valuable.
Cool.
Let's keep going down some of these questions.
As I'm scanning some of these, I'm curious for what is a question you feel like if we're
not asking in the coding agent world?
I'm going to take a couple of seconds to think about that while I scan over some of
these questions.
Yeah, one question that I think a lot of people are asking is, is there a question
people aren't asking is, you know, what's better, a team of geniuses working together
or a bunch of solo geniuses working separately in isolation?
And this kind of goes back to sub agents and multi agents.
And, you know, we've seen examples of
geniuses, human geniuses in the past where breakthroughs just come from one person and
they come up with incredible ideas entirely on their own.
And then you give it to maybe like a team to implement those ideas.
But for like by and all, I think like in general, I'm on the side of like solo geniuses
working in isolation.
And I think that applies to coding agents.
Like I think this whole like multi agent thing, like, oh, I spun up a Gorillian sub agents
to like handle this task.
I think you're just going to like we've had this in the past, like with auto GPT.
And, you know, back in the day is like auto GPT and, you know, crew AI came out and that
was like also the promise of crew AI is like, oh, like context windows are limited.
We can have a crew of agents work on a problem together.
And it seemed like it was very appealing, but it just never worked.
Like it was just like, you know, it was like a fast way to burn a whole bunch of tokens
and get nowhere.
So, yeah, and I think it's just like a repeat of like, like there's so many parallels to
the rag narratives with with this like multi agent thing that.
I don't know, the jury is still out on that, but I'm I'm kind of on the side of like,
no, just like keep it, keep a single threaded, keep it one agent for things like maybe like
read only. It might make sense if you're like just gathering things in a context.
But even there, it's like you have the anthropic research mode and Claude and then you
have the open AI research mode and anthropic uses both agents open AI doesn't.
And open AI just works so much better for me when I use it for like, you know, deep
research for my articles, like quote mining and things like that.
It's just like so much better than enthral and they take like roughly the same amount
of time. So I don't know, jury's still out, but yeah.
Any other good question? What's your view on servicing bash CLI tools versus using
things like MCP servers?
I think with CLI tools, like it's just like a very easy tool that you can give your agent
access to and it just works.
You know, and then the agent can decide himself what tools to use with MCP.
I think there's some cases where it can make sense.
Like, there's some some really notable examples like the the magic MCP server from 21st
Dev where they inject like taste into the context of the model, where they have this
like massive library.
It's like a bunch of design engineers that came up with like all these beautiful
components that have like a big repository of it.
And this MCP basically like pulls in examples of beautiful design of like code or
beautiful components into the conversation and injects some taste into the agent so
that the agent can make beautiful components for you.
I think there's some good use cases for MCPs, but also like the more MCPs you add, the
worse the agent gets at following any one given tool.
So we've seen like that's actually one of the limitations with with Anthropix models
is like there's only so many MCPs you can add before it just like kind of dilutes
everything. Whereas the Gemini Gemini is actually much stronger.
You can actually give it a lot of MCP servers and Gemini will start using them
effectively.
That makes sense.
I guess another question I'm curious about is when I look at something like quad code,
it has every single tool in the CLI listed out.
So there is a like list directories tool and there is a read file tool and then there
is a GitHub tool versus, you know, once I imagine just exposing bash to it and having
a single tool that does many things.
I'm curious in your experience, like how do you think about having like super tools
versus having smaller task specific tools?
I think this is actually I think a lot about for any kind of agent.
Yeah, and like Klein and quad code are similar in this way where both Klein and
quad code, we have a terminal tool where the agent can just run any command in the
terminal and get its output.
But then we also have like the read file tool or like the search directory tool or
like these are the other tools.
And I think one element of this is just UX.
So, you know, in Klein, I think we might I might even be able to show you here.
Yeah, like on this slide, you might see like Klein wants to read this file.
If you have a special tool for it, then you can have like all this custom UX around it.
Whereas for all terminal commands, they all look the same.
They all look like that little, yeah, I'm lost to execute this command thing.
So on the one hand, there is like the UX component of that.
And I personally like I think UX is actually very important for this.
I think that's one of the reasons why Klein has been so successful is because we
just have like such a nice interface.
With an AI agent.
But we have considered like, like this internally as well, which is like, hey,
what if we just like only use the terminal tool and just like the agent would figure
things out from there?
I think eventually we might move in that direction.
But for the time being, it is helpful to just have like this little sandbox for the
agent where it has like these tools that are like, you know, like, you know, like
agent where it has like these tools like accessible to it.
We know that these tools will work.
Whereas like, you know, the agent might miss format, you know, a terminal command
or something like that.
And there's just like more surface area for problems with the terminal.
But I think eventually like we're going to get to a point where none of these
tools will be needed.
Yeah.
I can only imagine one use case.
It was just like having permissions and being able to allow list.
Right.
It's like, oh yeah.
Yeah.
That's actually a good point.
We have like auto-approved settings where it's like, you know, you have to, you can
turn on auto-approved for reads and edits, but otherwise everything needs approval.
And like the user can either accept or reject it.
Whereas like if the agent's just running terminal commands, like good luck.
Right.
Yeah.
And I guess that goes down to the UX part again.
Yeah.
You know, as things become more higher stakes, it might be the case that we actually
need more tools because we need finer grained access controls versus just having
terminal or just running things in a Docker instance.
I mean, speaking of terminal, someone asked, is there a plan for a client CLI?
Yes.
So, I mean, we internally, we already have one that we're building.
We're actually, so we're, we're coming out with enterprise this week and we're also
coming out with JetBrains and a CLI version of Klein imminently.
Um, so we're just kind of tweaking the lab.
Like we're doing some final polish to make the UX a little bit better for the CLI so
that open source contributors can actually start like contributing to it.
And we have like the foundation set for it.
But yeah, it's like, it really is like cool.
Uh, the, the terminal like Klein just feels, feels so awesome, especially when
you're like using it in them, this is great.
Oh man.
I really wish there was some like popper and bindings for short coding agents.
I, uh, I don't, I don't really want to just like multi-flex the screen.
I want to be like commit commands and almost have things something in a, in a,
like a plugin format.
Um, I guess on your comment of like the, the super genius, like one super
genius and many super geniuses, uh, what are your thoughts on mixing these
models for specific tasks, for example, tools that specifically use Gemini's
1 million context model versus O3 versus Sonic?
Um, have you thought about, so what does Ergonomist might look like?
Yeah.
Um, I think what a lot of like Klein users, like a common pattern, a lot of
people use is they use a very large context window model, like Gemini Pro,
the Gemini 2.5 Pro or the planning phase.
And then for the apps phase, once they've come up with a plan, read it in all of
the files in the context and come up with a very solid plans, then to, for the
execution phase, they switched to Sonic 4, for example.
Um, but yeah, I think at Klein, we definitely have a philosophy, like we
don't want to, you know, uh, be locked to just one model and our users don't want
to be locked to just one model.
And not just that we support all the different providers.
We support like Bedrock, Anthropic, OpeningEye, whatever you want to use,
even self hosted models.
Um, so it's interesting to see these, these patterns emerge kind of organically.
Um, but yeah, I'd say Gemini is really good for large context tasks.
So this can be like coming up with a plan for like a massive project.
Um, and then Sonic is very good at this, like, kind of like almost like autistic
execution of like one specific goal, right?
So, yeah.
That makes sense.
That makes sense.
I guess.
Oh man, I have one more question.
But I just, I just forgot it immediately.
Unironically, the question was about memory.
What are your thoughts on memory?
Cause I feel like I see cursor trying to do a memory thing.
I don't know.
In my opinion, I don't know if I use it that often.
Um, so Cloud Code has that like exclamation mark or that, that pound
remember versus like the agent files.
Um, how do you think about defining a system like that?
Cause I can, I can imagine that could either be, you know, rag or that is we
just, you know, feed like suffix it, uh, in the agents.mb file and call it a day.
So I'm curious how you guys think about that as well.
Yeah, that is a like, um, I will say like, okay, and Klein, we have work, but we
have, uh, Klein rules, which is you can consider it like memory or like, you
know, things that you just want client to know out of the box every time you
start a new task.
Um, and we see, you know, teams, you know, engineering teams, uh, at large
enterprises using it this way where, you know, they might have this like kind
of custom tribal knowledge that they, uh, like articulate in this, uh, Klein
rules file and you know, multiple client rules file and toggle them on and off
and kind of manage them that way.
We also have workflows, which is like more for when you're trying to automate
a sequence of repetitive tasks, um, that you, you know, previously would do
manually with Klein.
Now you can just like create a little workflow markdown file where it's like
step-by-step like, oh, when I'm doing a PR review full first use the GH tool.
It's already authenticated.
You can use a GH tool to like pull the PR down, review it.
Then you can leverage Klein tools as part of this workflow and say like, Hey
Klein use the ask follow-up question tool that you already have access to, to
ask me to make sure like, if you want to approve this or not, um, and give a
justification for why this PR should be approved or rejected or whatever.
And then if I say yes, then go ahead and run the GH tool, GH command to
approve it or reject it or whatever.
Um, but for this kind of concept of like auto, like auto updating memory, like
kind of in chat, GBT, they were the first ones that came up that came out with this
with like the memory updated.
Um, yeah, I I'm still like in our enterprise product, we're going to have
like a knowledge engine that kind of does some of this stuff, but you kind of, you
really got to be careful with this because like oftentimes like, you know,
even using chat, GBT, it's just like memory updated.
It's like, Oh, memorize something that I didn't want it remembering, like stop,
like stop doing this.
Like now I have to go in and try and manage it.
Um, so there is like a question of like, also like really, it's like another UX
question is like, do we want it automatically updating for users or do we
want users to like have the control over it or maybe some kind of hybrid thing
where it like asks for permission to update it and you can like approve it or
something.
Um, yeah.
And for something like that, where it's like your memories start piling up, um,
and you start wanting to like doing context management around that, you know,
the question is like, okay, well, is rag good for that?
And I'd say maybe, um, maybe it could be, uh, depending on how it's implemented,
but it's like, if you have like a whole list of like random little memory snippets
that's associated with, with the tasks that you're working on, maybe, maybe
embeddings can actually be a good fit there.
I know we're out of time.
I want to make sure, you know, you know, I just heard with me, help hostage.
Hi, but before we go in any sort of like, where can we find you?
You mean on Twitter or LinkedIn?
We'll always send a follow up email after this, but you know, the floor is yours.
Yeah.
Um, so yeah, my name is Nick Pash.
You can find me on LinkedIn, um, on Twitter.
Twitter is like primarily where I post.
Um, I also have a sub stack.
Um, and yeah, I'll just, uh, put my at Twitter here in the chat.
But yeah.
Um, if you have any kind of follow up questions or any discussion topics you
want to talk to me about, just tweet at me and, uh, we'll chat there.
Awesome.
Thank you so much.
I'm gonna have everyone else.
I think we learned a lot today.
Excited to talk about Klein.
Thanks so much, Jason.
Bye bye.
