Okay.
What would you do if you got five times more feedback in an AI product?
We're going to talk about exactly this with Vitor Zapier Central to tell us
exactly how they did it and what they did.
We went from getting around 10 feedback submissions a day to about 40.
And that was just by this small change alone.
We finally had that initial chunk of labeled data and we had a much
clearer picture of where our systems then to sale most frequently.
Everyone in the T2 is really borrowed to go look at the raw data
and help with the tree HQ.
Everyone starts to understand the values of looking at the raw data.
Hi everyone.
Nice to meet you.
And yeah, I want to talk to you today about how we collect and analyze user
feedback to make Zapier Central better with the help of our friends over at
Brain Trust.
And before I start, I wanted to give just a little bit of background
context on Zapier.
For those of you that don't know, on Zapier, we do a lot of stuff with AI.
Our vision is really to make AI do the work for you.
So you can see a bunch of examples on this slide.
We have many AI power features in production today, ranging from things
like the AI Zap Builder, which is a natural language to Workflow's Creator,
Zapier Copilot, which is a chat interface inside of the editor, which lets you
both edit a workflow, but also debug runtime and test time issues.
Custom Actions, which is also a new project where you can give it a link to
some API docs, then we generate a new integration for Zapier for you if we
don't support it yet.
And then there's a bunch more stuff with the list at the bottom.
Go check out zapier.com slash AI if you're interested.
We really do a lot of AI stuff.
It's starting to sound like Tim Cook in an Apple presentation saying AI all the time.
But today I wanted to talk about Zapier Central, which is the product that I've
been working on lately.
And Zapier Central is a very new product.
It's our take on what if we could try to disrupt Zapier, the platforms from within
using AI, and it's both a chat with your live data and an AI automation platform
all at one, that we connect to live data from third party apps and that we keep
them in sync for you.
So it's kind of doing rag over files, but those files can be data from your third
party apps like Notion, HubSpot, Google Sheets, a bunch of other things.
And we also let you interact and do an act, send data over to all of the 7,000
plus apps that the Zapier platform supports today.
And you can also use it as, you can use it as a GPT style one-off chat whenever
you want for product, which is fine.
We could also use it instead of recovering workflows using natural language
and then automate some later work.
Instead of having to go to like a workflow builder, just describe in natural
language what you want, you give the bot access to some of your apps, and then
it would just kind of do its thing.
So this is kind of like our way to get into the, get a wedge into people that
that are excited about automation, but they are too scared about complex
builder type of products.
So an example here could be you have an assistant with the instructions every
time a sales meeting is about to start, extract the attendees from the calendar
event, go do a Google search for each one of them and summarize what you find, and
then add them to a met with me Google sheet, and then DM me a final summary in
Slack so I'm prepared for the meeting.
And then you can keep this running in the background, it's going to do its thing.
But whenever you want to ask questions about the people you've met with, you can
also go chat to the bot and you can say, Hey, have I met with this person yet?
Or how many people from Canada have I talked with so far?
Stuff like that.
And so today I wanted to tell you a story of how we used our feedback collection
pipeline and how we consume all that signal today to help guide our product
to see these.
So typically when you build AI products, you want to optimize for getting the
MVP from your users as fast as possible.
So you can start collecting feedback and then you want to use that feedback to
learn fast and iterate, right?
So very common loop is a bit of prototype with a strong foundational model.
And then you do some vibes base or perhaps a static list of evals that you
curated by hand, or you have some synthetic data and then you ship that to
some users, you start collecting real world feedback and then you use that
feedback to build more evals and improve your system.
And then you just kind of rinse and repeat, right?
Then once the model comes out, all of those evals are also going to be paying
dividends because now you can swap to the newer model and you run your
evals to examine what got better, what got worse, and then you can make a
decision based on that and other factors, costs and latency of swapping the
models and that's for your product.
So this is where we were at the beginning of the story.
We were kind of entering this iteration loop.
We had a successful MVP launch.
People were excited about the product and some of the things it promised to do.
They liked the stake on AI assisted automation, but because we support such a
wide breadth of use cases, it was really hard to assess what use cases are we
low accuracy at and from those ones, which ones should we be paying attention to?
Right?
Which ones have high trash shape to justify prioritizing?
And which one of these are like just one loud user complaining that we can kind
of either reject or ignore these types of use cases for now.
And we also knew that we needed to vastly increase our eval coverage,
hundreds of tests per quote unquote capability of our system.
Also wanted to get end to end coverage of popular use cases that we saw users were
building for and were kind of like sharing on social media and were excited about.
So the release of GPT-4.0 also kind of acted as a bit of a catalyst for everything
I'm going to talk about here, because it really highlighted the need for better
understanding of the discrete capabilities or product need of support.
We had like limited evals and those helped guide the decision to move from
4 Turbo to 4.0 at the time, but we were really blindsided on some use cases
where accuracy got lower.
And one example of that is recovering from a tool call with invalid parameters,
where the model would just kind of get stuck bouncing between the two attempts
to solve the issue over and over again.
And then it would just kind of go in a loop, trying the first attempt and back
second attempt and back first attempt.
And you wouldn't really realize that it was stuck.
And that was very surprising for us because everyone else was saying that this
this got better for them was for all, but it got worse for us.
So we had some work to do.
So step one in our journey was really to just like, let's just collect more
feedback. We more stay, you know, right?
Because we had such a wide range of use cases to support.
We really have like a very tight vertical use case or product.
We really needed our users to tell us what they were trying to build and where
things didn't go as expected.
And Zythee has been designed partners with Brain Trust since almost the very
beginning of our AI adventures.
And we've been using Brain Trust for pretty much all of our AI product
offerings, and it's been invaluable for us to accelerate the product flyer.
We were collecting feedback, turning them into evals and then iterating for
improvement.
And for Centro, it wasn't any different when we started using Brain Trust.
It was too, literally the beginning.
Thanks for correcting me.
So the first thing that we did for Centro was we started logging like literally
every single production run to Brain Trust.
And this helped us really drill down to specific tool call, completion calls,
subsystems, latency, token usage costs, everything.
It was really valuable.
And we also had our eval pipeline already set up with that curated dataset that
we had, and Brain Trust makes this pretty easy to get up and running to.
So then besides that, one of the interesting things that we discovered early
on, and something that Jason also mentioned previously in the workshop, is
that you really have to put in the efforts to get users to provide feedback.
I think people are becoming blind already to these default thumbs up and thumbs
down buttons that we add to our AI check UIs by default.
It's a little bit like ad blindness, where we can, we all just kind of ignore
any ads on a webpage nowadays.
Feel like it's going the same direction.
And initially we had that feedback system set up, but we had these boring,
tiny feedback buttons on the top right.
And they were like, like these muted color.
And even though we were getting a lot of usage in our products, the feedback
submission rates were abysmally low.
And even when we did get feedback, it was almost always negative because people
only bothered to submit feedback when they were very angry or something went wrong,
like runtime error or something.
But positive feedback is just as important, right?
Especially when you're building an LLM system, because you need to know
what's working well in production.
You want to capture those and make sure you prevent them regressing in the future.
You also can use them as positive examples for fear shotting, potentially
like fine tuning later on.
So really had to figure out a way to encourage more proactive
feedback, both positive and negatives.
So now what we do is we're a bit more aggressive about asking for feedback.
And we try to be more proactive about doing it in the right context.
So you can see a good example of this on the screenshot.
As central when you're building a workflow, you'd need to test it at
least once before turning it on, because that's going to pull in some simple data
and kind of guide you through the steps one by one.
It was a stop along the way asking you if you want to provide any feedback
so we can self correct or, or she want to keep going.
So now when, when a test run finishes, we can add a normal looking chat
message at the bottom and asked, did this run do what you expected it to do?
And we can put bigger thumbs up and thumbs down icons right next to it.
And when the user clicks on either of those buttons, we also did some work
to provide some examples of what good feedback looks like, what good or negative
feedback looks like inside of a preformed X field, and then the user can
provide us some details on why this was good or bad.
So this small change had a pretty huge impact by itself.
We went from getting around 10 feedback submissions a day to about 40.
And that was just by this small change alone.
And we also started getting a lot more positive feedback too, which it
was the more surprising part of it.
And the graph at the bottom at the dark blue are the positive feedback submissions.
And we were totally not expecting that to be the case.
And it was great because we really needed that feedback.
It was surprising to us how she took since the minor could really
like increase the amount of feedback.
Basically like 4X or signal.
So we're really happy about it.
And this was the first thing that we tried to really pop this
up to keep doing more things.
As an aside, another really key point, I think it's worth mentioning is that the
wording of the feedback request also matters and initially we were going to ask
something generic like on that left side, like how do we do, but after talking to
Jason, he suggested we go with something a bit more specific, which led to much
better quality feedback, especially on the negative signals, because for this
pipeline, for this context specifically, we were more interested in whether the
workflow was doing the right thing.
It's a complex multi-step agentic blah, blah, pipeline.
That's topic for today.
So we worded our feedback request to nudge those kinds of feedback.
We still cared about other things like is the system slow?
Of course, but, but we monitor those in different ways.
Another really useful strategy to compliment explicitly asking for user
feedback in the right context, being more obnoxious about it is to mind user
interaction in your app for implicit feedback.
And there's actually a lot of low hanging tree possibilities here.
And I think the difficult part is not coming up with ideas, but really just
like wiring everything up in your app to track and correlate those events.
So one easy option that I usually recommend people is consider running
like a nightly job really to just fetch the bunch of runs from your database.
And then just runs a script locally to mine them for, for implicit feedback.
It really doesn't have to be anything fancy.
So using that same example I mentioned in the previous slide, after a user
tests the workflow, if they turn the workflow on, that's a pretty positive
signal that it's doing what they want.
Right?
So we can treat this as an implicit positive feedback on the other
end, if a tool call return the validation error, then there's a high
likelihood that our LLM made a mistake and that we can treat this as an
implicit negative feedback.
Another good source of implicit feedback is just looking at the
follow-up messages a user sends after the LLM responded.
Here, the user is clearly less letting us know that this can be
treated as negative feedback.
They were not very happy with the response.
The problem with these ones is like, sometimes they tell you that the
response from the Rack system was wrong, but they don't really give you any
additional context on why.
So you're like scrambling a little bit to figure out exactly what was wrong.
Especially since we don't have access to any of the raw data from the data
source that our users add, you don't have like a static list of files or
anything that's part of a Rack system.
So this makes it really hard, but it's still really valuable implicit feedback.
It helps us fix a couple of issues in a pipeline already.
And sometimes the user will send a follow-up message that is also mostly
rehashing what it asked the previous time to see if the LLM interprets
that phrasing better.
And I usually see this with like more tech savvy users, I think, where they
just see an example on screen.
It's just kind of reword to try to put the subject first or change the words
around and see if they're like tickle this, tell them the right way or whatever.
I actually see a lot of this.
So this is an interesting one.
So you can get all sorts of fancy here too, intellect semantic comparison
between them, stuff like that.
It's a really fun topic to be in.
Selfishly, it's a fun topic to work on if you have the time.
Of course, hallucinations are another really good source of implicit feedback.
And even though it sounds kind of hard to come up with the heuristics or the
techniques, I think here's another benefit of spending time every day
looking at your data, right?
Like you start kind of building these intuitions about pathological
hallucination cases that are common in your app.
And in our case, the one in the screenshot was common enough that we
could look for that specific phrase.
You can replace something in square brackets to mine for that implicit
negative feedback, and that helped us kind of get a sense of how often this
was happening and if we should worry about it now or not.
All right.
So, so now we kind of had all this data and this helped
decrease our signal by a lot.
So the next step was really to try to understand that data more deeply.
And our goal was to identify where we were failing most often and categorize
those failures into buckets and afterwards cross-reference this with the
usage data to guide product disease.
So we wanted to focus on high traffic areas with low accuracy, right?
Something we talked about in the workshop as well.
Something was failing often, but had low traffic that we didn't want to spend
too much time on that right now.
And we also wanted to take a lot of these examples and turn them into this
way we could reproduce them locally and we could work on improving them over time
and kind of go through that iteration loop and also make sure that the
examples didn't regress in the future either.
Working with LLMs is kind of like a, you know, whack-a-mole sometimes.
So we really want those positive examples in your system.
And as for non-goals, we weren't really interested in an LLM as a judge.
I plan at least not yet, partly because we wanted to make sure we had enough
human labeled examples first.
And partly because I really wanted to encourage the team to help with labeling
and to kind of get everyone in the groove of the like, look at your data mentality,
which is something I was finding that the team was looking at at the time.
So to help us understand the data, the first thing we did was we started
adding a bunch more metadata.
So every run gets post-processed for additional metadata, like a list of the
tools that were used, the number of tools, the context on which that run happened,
whether it was initiated by a Chrome extension, from a web app or Slack
integration, and a bunch of other things.
And this allows labelers to find a subset of feedback if they want to.
For instance, we have one team internally that's focused on building
the system that rags live data.
So that team could shelter by runs that had tool calls to their system and
then labeling only for those.
It also allowed us to test some data in the future, right?
So the number of tools called in a run have any correlation to the success.
Spoiler alert, it does.
That's a pretty easy one.
Some more indoors, some more involved data hypotheses that we can test now.
And here, BrainTrust also made our lives easier because it allows you to
filter very easily all of your logs by any of your metadata properties.
So we're just adding a bunch of stuff in there and we could, we can slice some
dice of logs by anything that we were interested at the time.
Hey, are your rag applications falling short despite using the
latest frameworks and models?
You're not alone.
I'm Jason Liu and I've helped a dozen companies improve their AI applications.
I've developed a systematic approach that delivers results.
If you want to check it out, join my free six week email course and learn the
techniques I use in my own consulting practice.
That way you can stop guessing at what works and measure what matters.
Just check out improvingrag.com.
The next thing we did was we also built this internal feedback triaging system
where all feedback submissions will land on by default.
And from here you have an optimized view for staff to redo everything about the run,
label it, includes a representation of the chat history at the time, plus all
the information that you might need to debug and understand the results.
This is a paying user, what were the instructions for this run, basically
a big dump of data and we were started off to the UI to what like information
architecture, what do we need to present for a person that's trying to redo this
and understand what went wrong and what went right and label this into one of
the categories that we care about.
And it also includes a link to the trace and brain trust.
And that's where we would go and really needed to dig into the details of each
LLM call, the latency that costs all of the sub steps, there's a bunch of sub
LLM systems involved in some of these.
This really helped us do some more fine grained debugging when we needed to.
From the triage page, a staff member can label the feedback with a category.
And that maps back to one of the product capabilities that we're interested in
tracking, and they can also add some notes with the findings, right?
So they can help us later when we're creating an eval and the eval search
for this run, so you can figure out.
And sometimes it was very involved to try to understand what exactly went
wrong with some of these.
I think the most time was spent on trying to understand what went wrong because
the user didn't provide enough context.
So we had to really go dig into everything about their setup, then actually
figuring out what went wrong with the actual LLM calls.
So it was really valuable to add these triaging notes like for
the next person looking at these.
And we also make it really easy to create an eval straight from the UI.
In this case, this was a very, a pretty complex pipeline.
So we needed to do a bunch of mocking to simulate the production run.
This involves a bunch of third-party calls to the user's third-party system.
So we definitely don't want those to, to show through and they're, they're,
we're not going to even work anyway.
So we want to make sure that we make exactly the same run that happened in
production, but we needed to mock some of those third-party requests.
And we also use an assertion-based score.
So we store this eval dataset locally.
It's a pretty involved like JSON representation for each eval row.
But for other pipelines of subsystems that we'd have, we usually just have
a button that adds a new row to a brain trust dataset, or we just do directly
from the brain trust UI, which is also really easy.
And now after you add it to a dataset, the eval will like load up that
dataset every time it would start.
So all of these, we get picked up automatically the next time we run the eval.
So it's really handy for like small parts of the subsystem that
you're just trying to split out.
So here, for instance, we have this planner subsystem that would help us
build, plan for, do some data analysis, use some piping code, and we had a
dataset specifically for this.
Then we started adding, and it was really easy to just kind of go through the
production logs and spot runs that we wanted to add to the dataset.
All right.
So at this point, the triaging system was set up.
We were getting a lot of data.
At some point we had about 500 feedback submissions needing triaging, and I was
still doing these mostly by myself, or trying to do these mostly by myself.
So I really needed to find a way to scale it up.
And that's why we came up with this idea of doing labeling parties.
This is the fun way to say that when the entire team would meet and we would
look at the triage queue and label some feedback submissions together.
And obviously this was slower than me just ripping through it and labeling by
myself at the beginning, of course, but it really helped build our team members'
confidence that they can help with labeling on a daily basis.
And after those few weeks, everyone was feeling more confident to triage also
daily, a few submissions by themselves.
So it's really helped the system kind of scale up.
This also helped encourage a look at your data mentality.
I felt like I had to now look at your data in at least one slide to kind of
keep with the style of people at the workshops.
And this was actually really true because every week we would find valuable
insights in looking at the queues and the people would, they really started
understanding the value of staring at the raw data.
And I think this was for me, perhaps an even better outcome than anything else
from this whole effort is like everyone in the team understands that you need to
look at the raw data and not only that, they're also not afraid to go look at
the raw data because they can now they can, they know how to interpret it
correctly, they know how all the pieces of the system fall into place.
We also often end up finding like very interesting examples, just spurred
tangential private decision discussions.
So in general, these calls were like really high in our life, even if we
spent like an entire hour just talking about the same feedback to the label,
because we will always come out of it really happy that we take that time together.
So then we were collecting all of that extra data and we had some
mechanisms in place to understand it.
So it was really time to put it all together.
Now is where we can really start profiting and start seeing like the
flywheel starting to turn a little bit.
With some human involvement for now, but it's better than nothing.
We finally had that initial chunk of label data and we had a much clearer
picture of where our systems then fail most frequently.
And for instance, we have a tool called AI actions, which takes a natural
language description of how to invoke an action in a third party app.
And then we translate that natural language description into the parameters
that you have to pass to the third party API.
Some third parties APIs, third party APIs are really confusing.
I'm looking at you Google API.
Sometimes we would guess the parameters wrong or even worse, you would make up
parameters that were missing from the description instead of asking for
clarification, right?
So a classic example that we had in the beginning was if you say something
like send a DM in Slack at the beginning, what AI actions would do, you would just
send a DM to a random person in your Slack workspace instead of getting back to you
and say, okay, I can do that, but who do you want to send this DM to?
And so now we knew that this was the most critical issue that we needed to pay
attention to right now.
And besides all this data, we also gathered, you know, which, which apps for
this subsystem were failing more often.
So we knew that Google Sheets was the largest offender when it came to this
category, so we since put a lot of effort into improving the accuracy of
Google Sheets action, like add a rule to this Google Sheets, update it and stuff.
So we also started feeding all of this data into our analytics platform,
Databricks, and we were able to cross reference all of this with our product
usage, which is pretty awesome because now we can use this to inform some of our
process, right?
For instance, when we released our Chrome extension, we started noticing that
people were using the Chrome extension really heavily, but even though we had
this feature in the Chrome extension where you can like ask questions about the
current Chrome tab, very often the LLM would go call fetch as a browser tool and
fetch the URL that you were in instead of just using the context of the current
tab that we were already providing the LLM.
We identified this and we knew that this was an important issue for us to fix.
So in total, as of today, we went from 23 curated evolves that we had in the
beginning, best started off as a Google Sheets and ended up in brain trust to
what we have now, which are 383 evolves and growing, actually had to update this
slide half an hour ago because they had already changed, but yeah, and also now
we have, we're way more happy.
This is going to keep growing.
And most of these are also based on live runs.
So this is really great because it allows us to run these whenever we want and
still way more constant that any change that we're making to our system is not
causing any big problems to our users.
There's some other outcomes to that.
As I said, I think this is one of the parts that I was most happy about.
Like everyone in the team is really empowered to go look at the raw data
and help with the tree HQ.
Everyone starts to understand the values of looking at the raw data.
And more importantly, I think the discussions that we have as a team, they
are more focused on improving specific capabilities now.
Previously, there was a lot of hand waving and kind of generic like, we need
to make things better, this course, and now these are more targeted.
So that's really exciting for us.
As I mentioned earlier, one of the catalysts for this whole effort was
the release of the GPT-4.0 model.
And we feel much better equipped to make a decision on switching
models when we need it now.
And a recent example is how the latest snapshot of GPT-4.0
regressed some of our evals.
So instead of swapping right away, even though it was a cheaper snapshot, we
had to wait and we decided to spend a few days doing some prompt tuning
before we roll it out.
And of course the flywheel is starting to spin.
We can see activation and retention in the product starting to trend upwards.
The ratio of positive to negative feedback submissions is looking good.
And even though we need some of that human help for the labeling now, I
think one of the next steps we're already thinking of is like, how can
we do this a little bit more?
And I think, you know, I'm very excited to apply some of the ideas that I
learned in the workshop to work and try to build some sort of LLM as a judge,
at least to kind of draft the initial suggestion of the labeling for some of
those feedbacks and then have a human just like read it and I'm like, yes,
okay, not okay.
I know we go from there.
Cool.
That's everything I had.
Thanks for listening.
Thanks for watching.
If you liked that video, make sure to like and subscribe.
And if you want to learn more, check out improving rag.com.
We're going to talk about the foundations and not frameworks over six
emails, you're going to learn how to overcome absence blindness, as well
as how to fine tune language models, understanding diverse query types,
improving multimodal rag, and ultimately smart question routing and build
up UX that collects user feedback.
Just check out improving rag.com and fill out this quick email address at the bottom.
Thanks.
