Started out in aerospace engineering, soon moved to search relevance and ended up
getting the opportunity to write a book, which changed my life.
And I decided never to do that again.
I was fortunate enough to be an early engineering co-pilot.
And then I wrote another book, which is ridiculous.
So here I am again.
And then just recently, a half year ago, I started ArcTurus Labs.
And of course, please visit us at ArcTurusLabs.com.
To jump right into it, I need to make a caveat.
Lexical search is my hammer.
And the world is my nail.
So there's a lot of stuff I'm going to say that's just like in your
phase, like lexical search is the best.
I know it's not really the best at everything.
And we'll get to that at the end.
But yeah, we're gonna, we're gonna make the best case we can for lexical.
And then when I get it wrong, you guys hit me up later and say,
there's this other thing too.
We can do that as well.
I like to learn, but lexical search is everything.
All right.
I feel very sad because in today's world, semantic search is how you do rag.
And it's easy, right?
You, you take your documents.
You chunk them, you stick them into an embeddings and get the vectors out.
There's plenty of database options for storing and efficiently searching these
things, and that search time, you've got your search tool that your assistant gets.
And you do the same token as the same vectorization of the search.
It goes to the vector database.
You get your vectors out and it's just easy.
And the extra cool thing is that it's not searching based on just tokens.
It's searching on the meaning.
Cause isn't that what you're after?
The meaning, the informational need of your users.
That's great, but there are problems.
Some of the problems are that it is impossible to find exact matches, ID,
the products, people's names, stuff like that.
If you're looking for a specific phrase that you've heard before, you know,
it's somewhere in there, you want to have that exact match, but that, that's,
that's not easy to do with vector search.
And finally, if you have jargon that was not available or it's a niche jargon
that wasn't in the embeddings training, it just not going to know it.
It's going to give you the wrong answers.
Another whole genre of things is relevance is very opaque with semantic search.
If you're looking for a doc and you can't find it, there's very little way to trace
back and figure out what's going wrong.
And fixing it often means training models and doing things that are very
challenging and still black box.
And finally, and this is one of the focuses, filtering is really clunky.
It's hard if you really want to take a big set of data and slice and dice and
then do relevance within whatever is left matching, it's really hard to do.
And let's, so let's take a look at that.
Cause that's the crux of it for me.
There's a couple options with semantic search to actually incorporate filtering.
One thing that you can do is do the search and then the filter.
If you do this, there's a decent chance if your filter is very constrained that
after all this work, you will have removed all of the items in your search results.
And so then what, I guess you go back and get a larger set of semantic search
matches, matches, maybe do this several times.
It's quickly going to outgrow feasibility.
The other thing's equally bad, just for different reasons.
You can filter first and then do semantic re-rank.
Now notice I said semantic re-rank at this point, you are brute forcing all
the vectors to find the closest match.
You can't use the same data structures with this method.
And if your filter is fairly permissive, then this is going to be a lot of
vectors that you have to work through.
So this is also uncomfortable as well.
So in this talk, I think I've stuck about two hours worth of
content in the next 40 minutes.
We're going to learn light school search really quick.
We're going to talk about how it can be applied in RAG and underscore some of the
benefits, but then I'll lower my caveat a bit and discuss some of the problems
that that are still present for sure.
Lexical search and at the very last slide, we'll point towards hybrid search
and mostly point to some of my frustrations that I, that I hope the
industry as a whole figures out how to solve in the next few years.
Let's go.
Time to learn lexical search really free and fast, three bullet points,
indexing, searching and results.
Now, when you set up an index with most types of lexical search, thinking
elastic search or open search or the solar, if you're old school enough, you
have access to all of the data types that you're comfortable with.
It's not just text.
You got numbers in its bullions.
You can get some sort of some of the more exotic types, bounding blobs and
the time interval and compound types.
But the star of the show is definitely the text and in particular there's
keywords, which basically they go in is like categorical values.
It's just the keyword.
But then there's also text, which gets tokenized and chopped up into little
pieces and that's the secret sauce that makes a lexical search fast and.
That's it in its own way.
And to chop up those tokens, we use analysis, a process called analysis.
So the easiest way to understand it is to look at an example, the quick
brown Fox jumps over the lazy dog.
The first step we go through is character filtering.
This takes that string doesn't chop it up, but it normalizes it.
In this case, all I've done is lowercase everything, but you might remove diet
criticals above letters, you might use Greg X if you wanted to filter stuff out.
The next thing is tokenization.
A very common thing is just to split on white space and punctuation.
So you're just left with the words and the sentences stop wording.
If you choose to use it removes all the super common words that
don't add much to the meaning.
And the most important thing, the secret sauce for improving the recall
is stimming, or basically you take verbs jumps, jumping jumped, and you chop off
the ending, you take same type deal for adjective, anything that can, that has
multiple forms, you normalize all forms.
So if you're looking for anything, you can match it.
All right.
So now since every document in our index is tokenized as a bunch of individual
tokens, how do we actually stick it into a very fast index?
Let's look at document 43 here.
This is the document that we just dealt with.
Every word that we've tokenized gets pulled into a dictionary.
It serves as a key for a dictionary.
And the values of that dictionary is a sorted list of every ID that token appeared in.
And so you can see here how I've highlighted that 43 is in all of these.
And we'll get to why this is so cool in just a second when we get to searching.
But before we get there, let's take a moment and look at the
differences that are occurring so far.
With semantic search, docs usually need to be pre-chunked so that you can deal with
a very tightly constrained semantic of this chunk.
With lexical search, there's no chunking necessary unless you've got books and
stuff like that, that divide by chapters.
Semantic search index can often be larger because these floating point vectors are
hard to compress, whereas that structure, the sorted numbers in the inverted index,
that could be compressed extremely small.
So that has benefits, practical benefits when you're actually serving these models.
And the data on the semantic side is fairly opaque, vectors that I don't understand.
And lexical search, at least the remnant of the word is there.
So once you get down to it, fixing problems is a lot easier to do.
Next up is value search.
So this same data structure makes it really easy to find things quickly.
In effect, we have done all the searches we could possibly do in advance.
Consider a search for all Fox documents.
That's easy.
You just go look at that term in the dictionary, find the vector, and that's
literally all they ask for your question.
It's not much harder with complicated Boolean searches.
So I could do Brown and Fox.
You get those two vectors and you union them together.
And Fox or dog, similar thing, two vectors and you intersect them.
I said that in reverse order, you union them for, you intersect them for and,
but you get the picture.
It's really not that hard at all.
And the cool thing is it's not just fast.
This is not just SQL, but there are really battle tested notions of relevance that
have been out in the industry for 20, 30 years.
Predominantly, the easy way of saying this is all the documents that are in
this matching set, whatever factors you've ended in or together, they are
scored as they're processed by TF IDF.
TF IDF means term frequency divided by document frequency.
And those words are a little opaque.
So break it down one more time.
This really means the number of times that a word appeared in a document
divided by the number of documents where that word appears.
So if you have something like Brown Fox, and you have a document that has the
word Fox a lot of times, then that's going to be more important.
Makes sense.
Right.
But if Brown is in the document a lot, but it's also in all the documents for some
reason, we just got lots of documents discussing color, then this term will be
decreased in its power to influence the score.
So there's an intuitive feeling for how scoring works.
When is BM 26 coming out?
I don't know that it ever will.
This thing is really called BM 25.
That's a slightly more nuanced version of TF IDF.
And finally, whenever it comes to dealing with multiple fields, you can process all
this stuff just as easily as just as fast.
And you can easily weight the strength of the different fields.
You can use the different fields as cutoff filters, and it's super fast to
process and modify the notion of relevance in these documents.
All right.
Let's we've accrued some more differences between semantic and lexical search.
Semantic search searches by approximate nearest neighbor.
It's it's all vector based, whereas lexical is all token based.
I've given you a hint about how it can quickly find the documents with those
tokens, because it's basically figured that out before your search ever happened.
Searching and filtering and semantic search necessarily so far as to take
place in different steps, either this before or after.
One of the awesome things about lexical search is all these vectors in the inverted
index of all these lists of matching IDs.
They can be processed in tandem.
It doesn't matter if you're really looking for a number or a word or a geo location,
all this stuff through convoluted means gets turned into this list of IDs that
is super fast to process simultaneously.
Semantic search relevance in a distance.
That's your only choice.
Basically you can, you can do cosine, but you don't have too many knobs there.
Lexical search in situ, you can change the weighting fields.
You can change the math that is used to evaluate search.
And it's really neat to be able to play with it without indexing anything else.
And our final chapter in our PhD on lexical search is how the
results come back to the users.
The obvious thing is the results of itself.
Got these matching documents and here is how many documents matched.
And here is a list of them.
By the way, this is the user interface per paper pile.
It's a good example.
What is I think really cool when you start thinking about how you could use this for
rag is the aggregations and then analysis that you can do with the matching set.
So like right here, I returned a set of like three documents.
There's probably some more below the fold, but of the 267 documents, we can quickly run
these through and do facets accounts to figure out what else might be hiding.
If we only filtered it down and you can do anything else.
If it makes sense in your application, you can do averages of price, max, min,
histograms, cardinality, and look up the documentation.
It just, it's, it goes really deep.
Snippets.
I haven't decided quite what I think about this as compared to vector search.
With vector search, you have to chunk before you do the indexing.
Oftentimes with lexical search, you can have the engine effectively pull out
snippets that it thinks are appropriate out of long documents.
So index the whole document.
Give me the five snippets that are most relevant to this document.
You can concatenate them, glue them together if they're next to each other,
but it's not quite as free is what you can do with when you're just chunking by yourself.
You can do anything when you're chunking it by yourself, but it's like search time.
Chunking highlights, say for completeness.
Basically, if you type anything in, it'll highlight we're in the document that appears.
It's cool.
If you type in search and something is like searching, then that should also be matched here.
So it does a little bit, but it's not quite as good is vector search of
highlighting the sentence that has the same meaning.
That's a really cool application of semantic search.
Differences occurring.
Semantic search, you get back the chunks and the metadata in the result.
Lexical search, it's the same content, but divided up differently.
You get the full document and all its fields.
That would be its metadata.
And if you want to, you get snippets, which might be useful, right?
But the really cool thing about the results is where it is semantic.
You just get the results back.
And if you wanted to post process everything else that might match, that
doesn't really make sense with lexical search, it's just super easy.
The data is already there.
You can slurp down everything you need to get counts and men's and max and averages.
How would you apply that to rag?
All right.
So now let's see how this could apply in a rag application.
The first thing we need is a document set as a good example.
And for this, I've chosen Wands Wayfair annotation data set.
It's a benchmark data set that came out a couple of years ago for e-commerce products.
There's all sorts of home items, appliances, furniture, stuff like that.
And it's something that it's, we all deal with this type of stuff.
It's not like insurance documents or SEC reports.
So just seeing how this works will give you a good feel for how
lexical search might, might be applied.
There are almost 43,000 items in this document set and there's several fields,
but the ones that are of most importance to our discussion today are product name,
product class, product description, and rating count on the right hand side of the
screen, you can see it's not important to details, but you can see where I'm
sticking in, I'm creating effectively a schema for our index.
Here's the product ID.
It's, we're just going to save it as a keyword, no tokenization.
Here's the product name.
We're going to treat it as with an understanding that it's English.
We use one of the canned analysis steps that, that knows how to chop
the ends off English words, product class, product description, rating count.
It's an integer, but it's still is going to get stored in that inverted index.
And I added an extra one just because I thought it demonstrated an
interesting point in a little bit.
I pretended that every item in the inventory has an availability,
which I pretending that there's brick and mortar stores throughout the continental
U S and so it lists which of the 50 States are available.
So before we do any meaningful search for our customers, we have to already
have the dataset filter down.
That's one filter that always has to take place.
All right.
Indexing from that is pretty easy.
I just take all the documents and woke up loads them to last search.
So that brings us to search itself, actually making the search from a
API perspective, I'm keeping it really simple here.
the search involves a query string from which we derive our actual relevance.
There is the availability, which will be filtering out first.
What state the user lives in.
There is the product class because for each one of these products, it has
a word or a list of words.
This is, this is kitchen items.
This is bathroom items, stuff like that.
So there's a product class minimum average rating.
If you wanted to filter out based on, I just want the really high quality stuff.
And then number results were just, I'm not really going to touch that, but
it's we're assuming 10 results.
And probably without going too deep into details, this is how elastic
search would allow you to query for stuff.
I'll give you a sense about how you would build a relevance
query in, in elastic search.
A Boolean search allows you to join a bunch of different terms together.
But instead of joining searches with ands and ors, you have these two
keywords, which have similar effects.
Must is like an and, you must, if there is some query in here, you must absolutely
match the document must absolutely match that query in order to be a valid result.
But we get to control relevance too.
So in all of this set that must match, we're going to give it bonus points
with everything in this shit.
The things that must match is I'm casting the widest possible net.
I'm saying if the user is looking for a blender kitchen, kitchen blender, then
it's going to look in these two fields.
These are very generously analyzed fields.
So it's everything is as loose as possible.
We're going to catch as many items as you can here.
And then in these bonus point queries, if the document happens to have the
exact phrase that the user used, that's an extra boost.
If the document had matches the exact words that even though they're not
tokenized, even though they're not analyzed and stemmed, if that matches
and that's an extra boost.
So ideally you take the same set from this and you group together the ones
that are better matching towards the top.
And also TF IDF is still come comes into play.
Then there's the filters.
If the user has specified, if the API has availability specified, then I add that
in as just a term filter, no scoring.
It just cuts off the matches.
Same deal for product class.
There's a lots of different types of filters that you can use.
For example, right here, if the user specifies the minimum rating, then we
can say, let's look at this numerical field.
It's got to be greater than or equal.
But imagine any type of filter you could possibly want.
It's very permissive.
Now our search results don't get presented in anything pretty API UI.
So we're just presenting them back to the rag application itself, but it's pretty
simple, straightforward.
We have a list that's because from here to down there, and here's just one
item in the middle of the list.
All these fields are probably pretty self-explanatory, but this should give
you an idea of how things look inside the index.
All right.
And the last little bit in our search application before we stick it
into rag is the response.
And I really wanted to take advantage for our demo of aggregations.
Really easy to set up.
It gets, it's specified as part of that same big giant JSON document that you
issue with a search, you say, I want to do aggregations in particular for the
field product class, I want to catch the top 10 terms.
I'm going to do a faceted count over all of the product classes that are most
popular within the matching set.
And I can present this back to the rag application is something like this.
This is what the rag app will see.
It says that within the matching documents, we have this list of lots of
desks, a few other things that are less popular down to top 10.
Okay.
So that's basically it for lexical search.
It's time to shove it into the rag application itself and see what
we can do with it from here.
All right.
You guys are probably all very familiar with this type of stuff here in the
screen, we have the JSON schema tool definition in tiny microscopic text.
I apologize, but basically there are three fields of interest, query string,
product class, and min average rating.
And that's what the model sees, but when the model actually reaches out to use a
search, it's going to get something that takes my high level search and I've
partially applied the function by saying, okay, rather than just searching for
anything at all, let's assume that we're only searching for whatever products are
available in this user state, whatever the rag application will use already has
it filtered down to just states that match.
symbol it into the full rag application.
Pretty standard stuff.
The system message, which I won't read aloud here is basically encouraging
the model to be exploratory.
It's saying you can do more than one search in series, figure out how to
narrow stuff down for the user, figure out what the index looks like for yourself.
And then this gets stuck into your typical concierge assistant type application.
User says something, the model optionally can choose to use the tool or not.
When it's accrued enough information, then it sends that information back to
the user, which gets printed onto the screen.
All right.
So let's look at it in action.
Everything you see here, I've typed this in with my hands, but I've got a demo app.
So this is, this is analogous to stuff that I saw when I was
playing with this application.
So we start out with our friendly assistant saying, hello.
How can I help you?
And our user says, my back hurts from sitting here all day.
Now the application is going to use the search tool right now, but it's
already doing something that is neat.
The search application behind the scenes knows that this user is from Tennessee.
So it is already filtered out that the query so that we only get
information back from Tennessee.
It's none of that filter then relevance or relevance and filter.
It is traversing that inverted index all at the same time.
And it's going to get the most relevant results that are from that state.
Now, whenever it searches, I've seen a lot of different variations.
This is one that comes up a lot.
It does two parallel searches or two things that really makes sense for helping
our user, our economic chair and standing desk.
That's great.
Nothing special here for lexical search yet.
It also, here's another variation I'll see.
It'll say the obvious thing to do for that is a standing desk.
And then once it gets results back, it'll read the description and say, ah, okay.
There's genres within this.
So I'll modify the text itself and look for adjustable standing desk and
standing desk converters.
It's gathering all the information under its own bowl edition to
satisfy the user's request.
The cool thing when it comes to large, how large language models can influence
these applications is that the results of this query returns the facet list.
So the model itself, and I've encouraged it to take a look at this in the system
message, the model itself can actually peruse.
I've got these 10 results I can see, but in the remaining results, I've got 553
desks and then I've got like TV stands that is like 200 something.
That's a little weird.
And so the model will, when appropriate, choose to do things like filter down just
to the things that are more relevant.
And it will actually clean up some of the relevance itself.
And so then you get to the results.
May I recommend the Stantastic adjustable standing desk?
So this shows that the model itself can actually learn from the filters
and influence what it does.
So the conversation goes on in a RADI application.
The user says, I only want the best desk.
So the model itself can further add more, more constraints to the search space.
And it's at this point, we've piled on three different filters, Tennessee desk,
and the minimum rating of four and a half stars.
So it's a very constrained search problem that if you have any size of semantic
search index, it's going to get finicky with like how you keep eating out the
performance, depending on how you do it.
I did not play past this, but one thing that I think would be interesting to try,
it's probably pushing the limits of what large language models can confidently do
at this point, but as they get better, it might be neat to have them also tune
the relevance score.
So if the user says, I'm only interested in lower price desks, that's a filter.
But if the user says, I prefer lower price desks, then that's a boost.
And maybe you could incorporate that into the tools that the model sees itself.
But the cool point there is you've got search and you can just completely change
the way that relevance works.
Institute there's no notion of having to like re-index or anything like that.
All right.
There are limitations to my poor hammer of lexical search, and maybe it's
hybrid search that will come and save us.
Limitations of lexical search.
I know that this is a dress and you know that this is a shoe to tennis shoe.
And we both know this is a dress shoe.
But elastic search thinks that this is a dress shoe.
This has been the bane of my whole career is trying to convince elastic
search that a dress shoe is just a shoe that happens to be shining black or brown.
Lexical search uses bag words with a little phrase matching if you
want to sprinkle on top.
But that's that, that's confusing, right?
If I took every word in my presentation today and I just put it in a box and shook
it, you wouldn't really get too much of this presentation.
You lose a lot of the semantic there.
Let's go search doesn't understand at all that you can have different words
that have the same meaning.
Lexical search doesn't care that the same spelled word can have very different
meanings, but if you say not something or never ever in a million years, something
like school search just cares about something, doesn't care about the negation.
And there's a lot of context clues that these, the embedding models will easily
pick up it's what they do that you can't do with just bag of words.
These are the very things that semantic search excels at.
I think we're where we at.
Maybe hybrid search can help us.
I want filters and facets and boosting from lexical search.
I want to be able to take a confusing result and be able to turn the knobs in
and change the way search works without having to think very hard without having
to change the way that a model retrain model, but I don't want this bad words
anymore.
I admit it.
I want search by meaning something where I could say, no, really I want not the
penguin.
I want dress shoes.
I want stuff like that, but here's where we're stuck today.
It looks like, are we really stuck here?
Semantic search and filter are filtered then semantic re-rank.
Maybe we're stuck here, but at least we're working on it.
And just to go through some of the things, one of the things that has actually been
around for quite some time, but is friendly to semantic re-ranking is lexical
search plus re-ranking.
Basically you use your lexical search as a filter and it's filtering everything,
but it's also sorting by relevance.
So you got a pretty decent set of maybe the top thousand or whatever.
And then you take that and you stick it through re-ranking and re-ranking used to
be the now old school models of learn to rank, but it could just as easily be
something that incorporates semantic vectors.
It's the tried and truth thing, but it's super complex and really it's just the
same thing as this.
So we, it's, it lessens some of the problems with this by adding on complexity.
There's another method I've blogged about this recently.
I don't think this is the end all, but there's splay, which is basically a way of
taking a language model.
So let's look at your document and pick out words that kind of like synthetic
synonyms, not quite synonyms, but the words that probably should have been in
this source text, but they actually weren't in the source text and they come out
weighted.
And so you can use this, you can take this big bag of words, still a bag of words
and shove that into your lexical index in another field.
This will give you maybe in your lexical search at re-ranking, this gives you
another way of casting an even wider net, but it's still not quite right.
You lose the nuance, you lose all the things that you lose with bag of words.
And you gain some, you hit precision by introducing words that maybe
shouldn't have been in there.
One that was introduced to me two days ago is that I was writing this course,
but it looks very promising is the work that we be is doing with academia, with
this, this, this approach called Acorn, which effectively it takes what is
very similar to the navigable, navigable small world data structures, or it's
takes exactly them or something very similar to them.
And while it's traversing the structure, it also takes a look at, is this a
match to a filter?
It seems very promising.
I don't think it's been like battle tested yet.
And there seems to be like some nuances there, complexity being one of them.
I don't know if there's nothing about this, except it's a really cool product
idea that has piqued my interest.
And I am on the point where I need to go look at this more, but super linked is
apparently taking, using your embedding structures and using different embeddings
for different data types, numerical or text or geographic or anything, and
basically taking different embeddings.
Somehow magically concatenating them into one, one big vector, storing them on
remote third-party databases like MongoDB.
And then using MongoDB search, nearest neighbor search to somehow come back with
things that act like filters, act like boost, you can change the boost and stuff.
I've thought about how this must happen and I have fundamentally baffled.
So I need to look into it, but I think it's a really cool idea that that should,
that is at least the combination of semantic search and filtering.
It's not one and then the other.
All right.
So I got through in under two hours.
Thank you.
And I guess, is there any questions?
Great.
Let's go over some of the questions on Slido and then we can go over so many live
questions we have, not that many.
So I think we can do a good job.
The first question from anonymous is I found the concept of knowledge graph
and AI powered search book, which is based on indices.
Do you have any experience with this in the context of RAG?
It's maybe just semantic knowledge graph in general.
Okay.
So I don't know, is the semantic knowledge graph a H in SW graph of
like just the ideas, the vectors.
So it's not lexical search.
Is it a graph database?
So it's not lexical search.
So I might need to have a little bit more information about what
we're getting out of that.
I haven't read AI powered search, which is really unfortunate because the
co-author is co-author of my first book.
Maybe we can just bring Doug in sometime and see if he needs comments on this.
Cool.
Yeah.
Whoever asked that just DM me on Slack and then I can make sure we
can see if we can get Doug online.
I know he's just working a new job.
Within these search architectures, do you often see things like biograms and
trigrams or has it always been the case that we just use unigrams for better
performance?
Oh, it's all the above.
Maybe not so much trigrams, but rather than, okay.
So what are you looking for when you're looking for biograms?
You're looking for the tokens, but the order of these two tokens are important.
So there's two ways of doing that with a lexical search.
One way is to, when you tokenize, I lied a little bit and the information about
the position of the tokens is also shoved into this super compact data structure.
And so you can run a phrase search and you can peel out all the tokens that
happen to be one token away from the phrase, the two gram you're looking for
or three gram or whatever.
And you can even do cool stuff like slop.
You can say this token is one or two spaces away from that.
A lot of cool stuff you can do with phrase searches, but it's a little bit slow too.
So one thing that people opt for is if you're always going to want to look for
biograms, then you take a hit at index time by making your index decently larger.
Especially we get into trigrams, but at search time, you can immediately
imagine those things and that field can be weighted really high.
So yeah, biograms and trigrams are often used in practice.
Yeah.
Hopefully biograms would be able to solve the gesture problem.
I'm sure you've seen crazier and crazier cases that doesn't make sense.
Yeah.
English language is full of problems like that.
Oh man.
I think I could talk to you about that all day.
What are some of the limitations and gotchas of things like elastic search
and open search and hybrid search?
What other databases do you recommend?
Referring back to my third slide, lexical search for much of my
career has been my hammer.
And I worked at Eventbrite and built out their search and recommendation system.
You can do a lot of really cool stuff with lexical search.
I at GitHub, my first project before I was fortunate enough to work with
Co-Pilot was on code search.
So I got to build out the next generation of search two generations ago.
But I don't know as much about MongoDB and Postgres.
They all have offerings that ostensibly overlap with elastic search and open
search is not only greet the question again, is this quite answering what you want?
I'll answer what I thought you're asking.
And then I see the word hybrid.
So I'll modify it in a second.
So with you get all the knobs for tuning, like relevant stuff with Postgres,
with MongoDB, you're going to get whatever they give you.
And you might find that you hit a wall.
Now, what are the limitations gotchas of open search, hybrid search?
What are the DBs do you recommend?
When I'm thinking of hybrid search or how I would typically use it, I'm still
thinking betraying my background.
I'm still thinking, okay, index everything in elastic search and do some sort of
re-ranking, go to a feature store and get out the information you need.
You can do that within the confines of elastic search.
They've got amenities now where you can post process with a model that
you've given to elastic search.
But a lot of times I think people just figure out what they need.
They do it outside of elastic search and build hybrid search on their own.
So I, and that's a big world.
So what gotchas do you have?
It just depends what you've actually put together for your hybrid search.
Cool.
This question might be, I can probably try to make this more general, but what
tips would you have for legal search problems where you're compiling an answer
based on information across multiple documents?
I guess the more interesting question might just be, are there different ways
of improving your search and retrieval based off these domains specific documents?
Is there like any kind of pre-training that you can do or anything there?
I don't know if there's questions.
So every, I'll make up something.
So every, every search is, every search project is alike and different.
It's because you're probably dealing with text or in, at an extreme case, you're
dealing with something that is text-like.
It could be like musical notes or geography sometimes, but you're dealing
with something that gets tokenized and used as text, you're also dealing with filters.
And so I think the 80 percentile of any search problem is getting the box out
and opening it and dumping the data into it.
Now, when you want to improve information, when you want to improve the application,
then there's a number of things that you can do, which gets, it gets more expensive,
but effectively you start collecting information about what should match as
opposed to what like actually is matching.
And it's not just good stuff at the start.
Everyone is looking at their pet quarry and like turning the knob of the boost
until they're happy with that quarry.
And then it's whack-a-mole.
We realized that the, the 5,000 quarries you haven't looked at have all suffered.
But as you get more mature, then you start paying attention to the e-commerce.
You can pay attention to click logging and figure out here's what the users are
searching for, you have like your long tail of common to uncommon searches.
Here's what to focus on.
I've been through Jason's class, so you can figure out these, these top 10
quarries account for 50% of the traffic.
Super important to focus on.
And then you can look at the clicks and say, every time they see this, they're not
clicking on this document ever, they're clicking on this one.
You can start using that information to, to build models, to tune it, turn the
knobs, and then you can use humans, just brute force humans have, have content
curators that are familiar with the legal space or whatever space come in and say,
here's what you give them the list of common queries in some of the long tail
quarries, they look through all of them and say, here's, I know the data set
is better than anyone, here's the, this is the best result, here's the next.
And you can use this information to do things like learn to rank, basically
re-ranking type algorithms, explain models to figure out how to automatically
change the knobs or just resort them brute force.
So that's a brained up of everything I would do in there for your legal search
problem and all the other problems too.
Awesome.
Let's jump into some live questions.
Bottom.
Do you have a question?
Yeah, I'm the person who couldn't fit the questions for the text box, but
I promise it's not that long.
So basically if I take a semantic search pipeline and I reduce the
chunk size to one word, right?
So every word we embed as a vector, then we pretty much get a lot of the
advantages you've talked about, right?
Very good exact match recall.
We will be able to highlight the keyword.
So your argument in favor of lexical search, is it in favor of lexical search
or is it just in favor of small chunk sizes?
You've taken a little bit of a hit if you go down to chunk sizes, the size of the
word, because now you're using a bag of words model because the chunk size of
just one word has no context for what's around it.
Also, that's going to be a big index.
Every one of those chunks is what 2048 floating points or whatever
you choose to embed it is.
Well, they can have smaller word embeddings, but yeah.
Sure.
That would be an interesting theoretical thing to do, but I think it would just,
you lose the best of both worlds.
Lexical search is going to do a lot better than that because you at least have
some context strung together there.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Where do you want to take the idea?
I think it would be interesting, but reckless to chunk that small.
Yeah.
Generally, I would also say that for most of these embedding models, they're not
really trained to only embed short sentences.
So even three word phrases tend to perform very poorly.
I think a lot of the time when we do embeddings over tweets, because tweets
are so short, retrieval ends up being pretty, pretty poor.
So yeah, I definitely found that to be a challenge.
And most times it's actually the issue that we actually want longer chunks
rather than shorter chunks.
Uziel, next question.
I think.
Yeah.
Thanks, John.
I really especially appreciated the idea about boosting.
That was something I hadn't really thought about before.
That was really cool.
I guess my question was just, what are some common like softwares or tools
that you use, like you should paper pile?
Like I looked it up.
That was cool.
Yeah.
Like any common technologies or softwares that you might want to highlight.
Thanks again.
Yeah, sure.
Paper pile is interesting because it doesn't actually, it has specific
per search application.
It is very nice way of organizing all the papers that I will never read.
Unfortunately.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I'm not big into tools and tools.
I feel we're all in a space right now that's firmly wearing its sorting hat.
And we're trying, it's trying to figure out what tools are going to be
meaningful in the future and what tools.
So in like school search space, the standbys for me are going to be
elastic search these days, old school.
If you go old school enough solar was, it was really gross.
Everything was XML, but you could actually pull apart the system
and reprogramming it.
So it was cool.
I haven't used it so much, but then there are tools for allowing
curators to rummage through searches and results sets and establish judgment
list of what is good and what is bad is its name.
It was built by a company I used to work for.
So if you're deep into search relevance, that would be good.
Yeah.
And then everything else I'm waiting, like when we get back to LLM side,
I'm honestly, most of it, I'm waiting to see what shakes out in terms of LLM
evaluations, starting to see something, some names come up multiple times for
LLM application observability, Langfuse, Langsmith, human loops, stuff like that.
So there's a bunch of random words go and do likewise.
Thanks.
All right.
Let's do one last question.
I think we only six minutes left.
Albert, do you want to ask a question?
Yeah.
Thanks, John.
I really like the boosting part as well.
I had a question about click logs.
How do you gain insights from those click logs?
For example, if you're for giving search results, the users are only clicking,
you know, the third result, does that mean your search is off or how exactly
do you formulate how you gain signals from the click logs and then for learning
to rank, what parameters are you adjusting once you get those signals?
If you're just doing a lexical search, are you adjusting parameters on BM 25?
Or if you're doing hybrid search, which parameters are you boosting or adjusting?
So for like, click tracking, click models, effectively, what you're trying to
back out of the data is your judgment lists.
A judgment list is a bunch of search and document and a score for how a
appropriate it is, so you take your top most common queries, you take potentially
all the documents in your index, you have a curator and you figure out this is the
one they should have picked or this one will give them the score of one.
This is not as good.
We'll give a score of two, something like that.
That's a judgment list.
That's a pain in the butt.
Humans are actually not very good at making judgment lists.
We just keep throwing them at it as if they were.
And so click tracking is basically a way to excuse the humans from that task.
And you're doing basically what you would expect.
You're saying for this search, we've got logs, how many times this search occurred.
Every time it occurred, we've got logs for who clicked on what we can sessionize them.
And effectively you back out this one occurred and of the 50 times that it was
seen for this query, it was never clicked on.
And so that's a little data point.
Order matters as well.
It's building depending on which click model you use.
Assuming that the top is going to be more relevant anyways.
And so if you don't click on the first one, it's even more surprising, but
click model itself has problems.
No matter what you do, you can't get over the human bias that we
can't click on what we can't see.
And so the most relevant product you have might be top of page two.
And so you can only learn so much through click modeling itself.
So this is just a struggle we face.
Synthetic data and synthetic judgments actually are a really new, hopeful
alternative, they got their problems.
The sorting hat is firmly on.
We're trying to figure out exactly how large language models judge my work.
Now to the second part of your problem, your question, what, what are we changing
whenever we have these click models and really the judgment list in principle,
you could change anything you want.
Like you could parameterize your search to elastic search.
You have a wait for certain fields, you have different filters and stuff,
and you can optimize that.
But what I think people are more comfortable with and it's more common is
basically you optimize you.
You get the top results from elastic search from open search.
And instead of just assuming the top 10 are good, you get the top 100 top thousand,
maybe it's hopefully sorted so that in the lexical search dumb version of
relevance, it's pretty good.
And then outside of that, you go to your feature store and for each of these
documents, you get the embedding vectors, even you get anything you want.
And what model do you choose to rerank them?
You can choose any model that you want.
You can train Bert or finding Bert or something on that.
And then you can use methods like Lambda Mart is nice because it's so easy to
wrap your mind around and it's agnostic for the model that you use.
It's a way of, it's a way of specifying data to effectively XGBoost would be a
great way of implementing Lambda, Lambda Mart search.
It just gives you the data that you plug into it to make it work.
So I don't know if that answered the question quite how you thought, but
basically it's up to you depending on what model that you choose.
You can tune it however you want to.
Nice.
Yeah, that definitely answers it.
What is the second part where instead of adjusting the filters or the boost, you
like adjust the model, is that specific field or technique or how can I look more
into that or look at Lambda Mart maybe?
That's the word.
Yep.
Look up Lambda Mart and just realize it's agnostic of whatever model you can plug
in XGBoost or something into the data that Lambda Mart helps you create.
Gotcha.
Thank you.
Oh man.
I think just hearing out the, hearing the call out for XGBoost kind of threw me
back in time a little bit.
I feel like these days, most of what I've been doing is just to go hear
your anchors, but it definitely correct.
Like if you have different features, it actually makes more sense.
For example, if you have features like price or even some other brand
categories, XGBoost probably might work better than these token based re-rankers.
But yeah, I think we're at time.
John, thank you so much for taking your time and preparing this lecture.
I think I learned a ton about some of the configurations for Elasticsearch,
especially the faceting and the boosting.
And I'm personally pretty excited to try out how we can use faceting for improving
things like tool use in the future.
Again, thank you and we'll see you guys next time.
Thanks so much guys.
Take care everyone.
Thank you.
