What does machine learning optimization have in common with improving RAG applications?
Optimization, the process of improving neural networks.
Optimization is formalized systematic improvement.
The best way to prevent fitting is like process fitting, right?
It's ensure that you have tests that can test leads out of your validation set.
In this episode, I'm really excited to bring in my friend Charles from Modal Labs.
I'll talk a little bit more about his research and how he thinks about
systematically improving applications.
My name's Charles.
I did my PhD studying the optimization of neural networks at UC Berkeley.
And since then, it's kind of worked in the ML ops and waste biases at Gantry,
post-modeling courses myself, and now work at Modal, showing how to use their
serverless platform to develop AI applications.
And so originally I was thinking of giving a talk kind of about fine tuning
for RAG and like, like how do you fine tune model, but you think about when
you're fine tuning, optimizing neural networks.
And it kind of, as I was starting to work on that talk, I realized you can just do
this like service level stuff, like, oh, this is, here's some LoRa brand people
like to use, here's some little tricks and tips, but it doesn't give you like
a systematic idea of how to optimize neural networks, how to think about
machine learning.
And that is the part that one is like most in line with the like branding
presentation style of this course from the other materials.
And then it's also like quite frequently the biggest missing piece for people
coming from like software engineering backgrounds and like approaching this
new world of ML powered applications.
So I wanted to take some of the things that I've learned about optimization
from like HDIM and work with machine learning systems over the last decade to
what does systematic improvement look like for like this inner kind of inner
core part, your retrieval augmented generation application, which is the
neural networks, the power your embeddings or power your, or the power
your search or power your generation.
So optimization, the process of improving neural networks, we think of it
as an algorithm, but really it's like just formalized systematical.
And the particular time type of optimization that is used on neural
networks, gradient based optimization.
It was sort of like formalized version of iterative improvement, taking many
small steps to get to your final destination.
The way, using how to, what to optimize is often done for people just like copy
the things that other people have done.
But there is actually a systematic approach from statistical learning
theory, from probability that gives you a framework for thinking about these
loss functions that you optimize.
The optomans.
This people do this kind of optimization stuff because it comes
through a more researchy world.
People tend to do it less systematically.
They tend to do it very ad hoc.
But it's very critical to approach to the optimization process with the same
sort of like systematicity, monitoring, et cetera, that you approach your other
kinds of like failure prone innovations.
And then finally, there's like, if I learned one thing from my PhD on optimization,
it's when not to optimize.
And so we'll talk a little bit about what the alternatives to optimization are
and how to think about optimization, like programmatic optimization in the
context of the other kinds of the other kinds of systematic improvements you're
trying to do, that's the outline.
Put the meat on those bones.
Optimization is formalized systematic improvement.
Let me give you, I imagine there are a split of the slides.
I think you see a lot of circular diagrams and loops and sly wheel, but let me give
you a particular perspective on iterative, on continued improvements, improvement,
and how optimization fits in that picture.
The like one galaxy brain view of software development is that a product
lead, who may also be the engineer, defines the behavior that they want out of a
program that behavioral definition goes off to an engineer, then engineer writes
code, they produce a program.
And in order to like write code, to like make sure that that program actually
like fits the defined behavior, people will write test cases.
So they start off, or at least in the abstract model, or when people talk
about best practices, they say start off writing a program that does that work.
And then write test cases that fail and run your program on those test cases.
They'll fail.
Now, you know, you need to implement implement things that cause you to pass
the test and do that until you pass all of the tests.
So that's that's like one model of how you build software with optimization,
with machine learn programs.
They look different, but like are different characters in each of the roles.
But the same basic thing is happening.
You have data that addresses the behavior that you want your system to engage in.
So you are training a pre-trained language model that's you have tests that humans
have put on the internet.
If you are like fine tuning a model to be a helpful assistant, you have data that
shows the behavior of helpful assistants and users in chats.
So that's your that's the equivalent of your product lead writing down a
stack defining a behavior.
It's also kind of the equivalent of the engineer sitting down and writing those
test cases and say, this is the way I want to behave.
But they're like time nodes, individual really tiny little unit tests that are
like, if you receive this input, you should put out this output.
So that data goes into a model optimization program that then like writes out the
parameters, writes out the weights for a neural network.
And that's your like final program.
And the way that the model optimizers generally work is that you start off with
garbage junk parameters, start with random numbers, and then you run your program.
You run your model on the inputs.
You use the data to calculate loss the same way you use paths to check for
failures and then update the program, update the weights to decrease the loss.
And then this loop, unlike the like test driven development loop, that one may be
run, you know, tens of times or something, maybe less, or maybe just like one times
through even as a straight line and not a loop, but this optimization process
runs millions up and hundreds of millions of times.
So this, this process of optimization, starting from a specification and then
creating something that classes that specification is formalized entirely
numerical automated version of the general way that we like build software
systems or that we improve software.
That's a useful sort of high level perspective for thinking about what's
the role of optimization is in this like inner loop optimization is just the part
of building our machine learning application that we can fully and completely
automate and have a machine to handle all the optimizations.
Unlike writing the outer software, like writing is model optimizers, generally
still done by humans, the collection of specifications from product leads and
the definition of your high level goals are done by humans, but this part of our
systematic patient improvement can be done by computers and can be done numerically.
So one caveat, I'm going to throw in at the end of each of these sections, I'm
going to throw in like a little kind of advanced tape for people who maybe have
seen some of this material before you have to be very, very careful with you
automate something and you set a system to optimize things.
And like there are many examples of this coming from machine learning, like
static creating little reinforcement learning agent bots that learn to do
crazy things and games and cheat in order to win.
I think you can see this already even just in traditional software.
You can imagine if you just, all you ever did is just like, if code classes test,
it's good, no human like intervention is necessary.
You hand it off to some unspressed individual on the internet.
So writes code and if it passes the test, it's great.
Like one way in which that can fail is that you could write code that, that
just passes the test that does nothing else.
So like I wrote a kind of somewhat generic version of this in Python a while
back, which the, where the implementation of this foo function just looks inside
the test, figures out what it was supposed to put out by just like parsing
this search statement here and then returning whatever it is that was, you
know, it's the expected, it needs search statement.
And this is exactly the sort of thing that can emerge in like an automated
system that machine learning models and neural networks love to cheat and find
shortcut and get to watch out when you like, you can't fully trust the system,
the opt the system that you are, that you are running and you need like
control, guard rails, some like, you know, human monitoring.
Maybe the clearest example of this is we do, we optimize on training data.
We always hide some data from neural network, we hide from some data from
the model while we're training it.
And we actually evaluate it on data it's never seen before.
Sort of like having hidden tests, the way that like coding competition or, or like
leak or whatever might hide some tests that you can't like write code that
just passes the visible public tests.
So this arises over and over again.
We'll see maybe some more examples as we go through.
Okay.
So like at a high level, this optimization process that we use is
automated optimization that is our most systematic form of systematic improvement.
The particular way that we tend to do it is with in contemporary
optimization is gradient based optimization, which is just formalized
as this process of making that's very popular in the way that people build
distances and build software these days, which is very, very small iterations
compounding with each other to create your like final results.
So what does that look like?
Just like Matt, I want to walk through this, this a little bit mathematically here.
The way that we do optimizations with gradients.
So imagine this like white curve here is some function that I'm trying to optimize.
I want to get to a point where the function value is nice and low,
like maybe one of these three points.
And so the thing that I do is I do a linear approximation to the function.
So I, I give up on the idea that I could just like, I know, write down the
functional form of this and do some algebra and come up with, oh, this is
the point where it's low and this is the point where it's low and instead I
approximate this thing and then I say like, let's pretend that this linear
approximation here is like this slope here tells me everything that I want
to know about this function.
That would say that the minimum would be somewhere over here, right?
So this white line here is a second order approximation based on this point
to this like darker gray function in the back.
And the, when we take a gradient, what, what, that's what gives us the second
order approximation and then we say, I don't actually trust the second order
approximation that much, so let me just take like a tiny step in that direction
and then repeat this process over and over again.
And eventually you get to a point where the bottom of this approximation and the
bottom of the actual function are at the same spot that you stopped.
That's convergence, a gradient based optimization.
I won't actually dive into great detail in the math stuff here.
There's some lectures that I did for Ways and Biases a couple of years ago on
math for a month that go into like excruciating detail on it.
Those are on YouTube.
That'll explain sort of what into these components.
But the core idea is that we like, we take this really, really hard problem
and we, we replace it with a simpler one.
And then we also don't even fully solve that problem.
We don't go all the way to the bottom here.
We just like take one step in the direction of solving it.
We repeat that over and over again.
So this substantially resembles like the way that we solve hard problems, other
kinds of hard problems, non-automatically.
It's like, well, I want to build a new startup that's for legal documents.
Let me find a simpler version of that problem, which is like chat bots that
just answers questions about mortgages.
And then let me find, let me get a little bit towards the solution of a chat bot
that, that answers questions about mortgages by just by like setting up a human to
answer questions about mortgages and walking with it and like have easy to
interact and see what questions they ask.
That's, it's like a similar set of motions, but in this case, just automated and
mathematical.
The sort of like, the people think of this as being the way that we solve
problems where it's like, oh, this like mathematical function here is super
complicated.
This is the way to the neural network interacting with data we have downloaded
from the internet is some complicated nonlinear thing we could never possibly
understand.
And so we have to give up and use this iterative improvement approach.
But actually this sort of like iterative approximate improvement almost always
wins as the way to solve any non-provisional problem.
So like you, you probably heard arguments for this, like from in other
places, business and neural network training.
But I want folks to find just like a super, super simple one, which is like,
how do you get the square root of a number?
Like, how do you know what the square root of the other number is?
And they're the, like, the solution that people have landed on is to say that,
well, what it needs to be the square root of a number is that if you took that
output and you multiplied it together, you copy it and multiply it together, you
get back the original input.
And so if we take that and we just kind of like relax it and turn it into
something where it's like, well, what that means, what it means for these things
to be equal is that if I squared their difference and that difference would be
zero and then say, okay, so the best square root would be the number that
minimizes this value.
If I could try many for class abilities, what the square root is, some of them
would be, would be very close to the original input, I'm multiplying the
gap, some would be really far away.
And then I can iteratively get a better one by better square root by taking my
current guess and then improving it by taking all like small step of iterative,
iterative improvements of this approximation.
And this is not theoretical.
This analysis is how you get something like John Carman's fast inverse square
root famously used in the Quake first person shooter in the nineties to get
around the fact that hardware was like too slow at calculating splitting point
operations to be able to like do some calculations about like distances and
radiuses in this video game.
Instead of Toml puts this approximation, take a step or two, the iterative
improvement, improve it, and then ship that as your square root, approximately one.
Hey, are your rag applications falling short despite using the
latest frameworks and models?
You're not alone.
I'm Jason Liu and I've helped a dozen companies improve their AI applications.
I've developed a systematic approach that delivers results.
If you want to check it out, join my free six week email course and learn the
techniques I use in my own consulting practice.
That way you can stop guessing at what works and measure what matters.
Just check out improving rag.com.
So we've now, so like we said at a high level that this we're trying to fully
assist our profits of iterative improvement.
The question has been completely unanswered this whole time is like, what is
this thing that we're getting better?
What was this like function in the background here?
Like what was this thing that we were using to generate our unit tests?
And people tend to kind of just like use things that somebody else has used, but
there are systematic ways to like figure out what's the, what this loss should be.
And the general thing that people do is they think of it as a, like they think of
it probably, they say that there is some like over the question of all possible
answers, what's like by the output of my system is the probability distribution
of possible answers.
And then I observed that the true answer was something in particular.
So this is a little like German translation problem where the correct
answer is this word and there's a number of possibilities put out by a model.
These are actually real values for an old bird based model.
We think of it as a, there's, we don't know what the output might be.
There are many possibilities when we had seen data in the past, maybe we
came up with a clear answer or, but we can also say like the data in the past
was half the time this gets, this sentence gets finished with this word, half
the time it gets finished with another.
And then we would have just like 0.5s here instead.
And so this cross entropy loss is directly used in like language modeling,
like a still in the blank language modeling task, or like a sentence
completion task, like is used to train generative retrain transformers.
But it's actually the case that this cross entropy is hiding inside all
the other loss functions that we use.
So you might've, if you've done ML in the past, then you've probably done linear
in the past, you've probably done linear fits, it's an Excel function to, to
do to fit a line to something.
And when you do that, you actually do end up calculating a crop
entropy, it's just kind of hidden.
You take what we do is we say, well, we don't really know what the future
values are going to be, but we're going to predict that they are going to be
some normal distribution, some bell curve around some center.
And if you take the probability distribution for a Gaussian, you take
this logarithm, so you go over out of the world of probabilities, the world
of entropy's, you get a squared value.
So you take the like square that's up in the top of the exponent in a normal
distribution and you pull it down.
And now this is the thing that you would, that you are optimizing when you're
doing your linear regression fit for like predicting the output.
And that can be, and use the weather prediction output example here to say
that like, this is not just like linear regression, but also like many other
kinds of regression will use these, the squared error loss function.
So you're using that value there comes from looking like frost entropy, but
for your distribution, it's going to be your distribution, the output of your
model, and the distribution you can apply by the gene you collected.
Just say that there's this kind of cool derivation of frost entropy from
the notion of like surprise.
And that's sort of where the iteration theory comes from all things to
physics and to like optimal betting theory.
Post about that on my blog that I'll share at the end.
Okay.
We now have a way, like a systematic mode of thinking about this thing, how we
sprain the problem that we want to optimize and their process.
We also want to systematically approach like at a meta level, how are we
doing our optimization.
It's critical to approach that statically as well.
This is a screenshot from my spirit diary when I was in grad school in 2018.
I was working on this like complex designation problem.
And I would just, every day I would like write up some little notes, copy, like
take screenshots of Jupiter notebook, be and paste things in.
And this worked, but it was, and one of the reasons I, when I left grad school,
I joined weights of biases was because of how painful this process was.
Tooling around these optimization processes is super, super critical.
They have a lot of the same properties of distributed systems.
They fail silently.
They fail in complex ways, but it's unpredictable.
And the like data requirements are very large.
You really want to like log everything that you're doing.
You do want to have a notebook like the one that I showed, but you want that to
be like full of links that go back to places where you can find more detail
information, full of interactive charts so that you can see precise values instead
of these screenshots full of like actual data.
This example, it's a little hard to see here, but there's input images and output
tests for a character recognition model down here, and that's embedded in this
document full of links to information about training run that is it's still
linked in a GitHub PR that explains like how a problem was solved with overfitting
or with improper calculation of validation laws caused by data.
It's the main thing here is that you can take a look at those artifacts you want to see.
So, you know, I like weight biases and you can use like whatever it is that you use,
make sure that you were just like, like keeping this information
structured and discoverable.
And the goal here is to achieve the like systematic way to think about logging is
the idea of observability from control theory.
This is something that Charity Majors of Honeycomb has written about extensively.
Observability is can you look for the information that you have available about
a system, can you figure out inner working and then change its behavior on the basis
of what you observe?
So can you just look at your logs and then realize what is the change that you
need to make?
That's way better than needing to recreate the system, rerun it, get inside it,
break point, debug, whatever, in order to solve your problems.
And that's frequently impossible in distributed systems, which is why Charity
who works on like distributed system debugging is so on there.
But it's all a similar problem with ML systems where you frequently can't rerun
it, it's too expensive, there's too much like non-determinism from data issues,
from hardware issues, et cetera.
And so logging is your resolution to that.
And so you want like the richest logs possible, be able to have this
observability, to have this.
And so finally closing out, so frame this in terms of optimization, that's the
term people are going to use all the time to refer where we're optimizing
neural networks.
Fine-tuning is continuing to optimize a neural network.
But really like optimization is a very strict idea of like, get to the
absolute best answer.
And really what you frequently want to do is something called satisfying, which
comes from Herbert Simon, who is like one of the godfathers of AI and of
optimizations.
And also thought quite a bit about administrative issues and decision
making and organization.
Satisfying is like getting a system to the point where it like meets a criterion
rather than getting to the optimal point.
So one way that this goes up is you have many metrics to care about, right?
You probably have metrics for your RAD system, you have metrics that are like
correctness based, like the loss.
You also have things like how quickly does the thing run, right?
What, like what do you, does it fit on?
These are all things that could be optimized, which is really, really
difficult to optimize many, many numbers at once.
And people be tricks like they combine numbers together into a single number in
order to make them optimizable.
But really the like better approach is to say for, I have N things that I care
about for N minus one of them, I'm going to set, I'm getting set a threshold.
So I'm going to set like, I want to be at least a hundred milliseconds latency is
my, is my latency like threshold.
I never want to go.
And for my like retrieval accuracy, I want it to threshold of 95%.
For my precision, I'm actually going to optimize my precision.
Precision is what matters the most.
I never want to give a wrong, like a false negative.
And so I'm going to optimize precision and satisfy on the, on a
re-fall or other metrics.
So this, the full detective learning course that I just want has some great
thoughts, we got to go in on, on like how to think about which things to satisfy
versus which things to optimize and how to like, and how to achieve those
threshold models, baselines, a lot of ideas does end up being demeaning
judgment, unfortunately, or fortunately for engineering salaries.
But in the end, this, this principle of doing satisfaction rather than, or
satisfying rather than optimizing, it's a very general principle and, and like
the, the losses that we think of ourselves as optimizing when we train neural
networks or train machine learning models are not actually the true thing that we
really care about optimizing.
The real thing that we care about optimizing is some downstream business
goals, some downstream like SOFO outcome, what have you.
So take for example, the training of the llama models for Facebook as an
optimization piece, I'm like specifically upset to see a loss curve like this.
I see this paint line here and you can see this thing is still going down
like rapidly at 2000 process, 2000 billion, yeah, two trillion process tokens.
But they stopped then because there were limits on the, like on their other
things that they cared about.
So they actually just made like, they kind of set the system up so that they
would do as well as possible on, on this.
So in a sense, they like optimized this at a high level.
They said, how can I get the loft as low as possible given these constraints
of hardware or, or time, but they didn't like optimize the neural networks
in the like calculus sense.
I think there's an important lesson here, which is like, don't go, it's like
easy due to the fact that this is this like very pristine mathematical approach
of like optimize, formulate a problem.
The mice that there's lots of numbers and variables involved that sealed
like it's a typically correct, but it's like frequently it's a kind of blind.
So, and this is especially true in fine tuning where data effects are small
and we don't trust them and our metrics and losses are frequently very rough
proxies of the thing that we care about.
And so you just, you know, the wrapping this optimization process in the outer
loops of continual improvement that you've learned about in this course is
critical for sort of like controlling it and avoiding like excess resources
spend it on this and avoiding like maybe the flaws, like the overfitting to the
tests and just passing the tests that an otherwise the devil.
Cautious of time.
I want to just quickly close out by saying that modal is actually not a
system for solving your optimization problems, at least directly modal.
The computer workforce serverless infrastructure platform.
We help you run your Python code in the cloud without all the agonizing pain.
Look mom, no yaml.
And there's serverless set up means that you pay for resources that you use
memory and CPU cores, TPUs with access to like TPUs from A10s all the way up to H100s.
Thanks for watching.
If you liked that video, make sure to like and subscribe.
And if you want to learn more, check out improvingrag.com.
We're going to talk about the foundations and not frameworks over six emails.
You're going to learn how to overcome absence blindness, as well as how to
fine tune language models, understanding diverse query types, improving multimodal
rag and ultimately smart question routing and build a UX that collects user
feedback to check out improvingrag.com and fill out this quick email address at the bottom.
Thanks.
