One of the big messages I had most of last year really was the fact that a lot of RAG
systems and a lot of retrieval systems feel very much like recommendation systems.
And if we can think about how we build recommendation systems, we can take a lot of that and bring
them back into how we give agents tools, build with feeble and whatnot.
And then when I talk about this idea of missing capabilities, a lot of it is the fact that
these search systems don't really know how to do search properly.
Like semantic search to me felt like my intern project in 2016 and everyone is catching on
to what's happening now.
But as Daniel explained in basically the second slide, there's a lot more capabilities that
exist in our disposal.
For example, on Amazon, you can search for cheap shoes with like a four inch heel.
Are those where clauses are those embeddings?
How do you do that?
And then how do you do that across multiple modalities?
And so that's why I'm really excited to invite Daniel to talk a little bit more about how
he likes to think about these things.
So yeah, Daniel, feel free to share your screen, take it away.
Hey, everybody.
Good to see you.
I'm happy to see lots of folks interested in doing information retrieval the proper
way.
And I want somehow for my setup here, I don't really see the chat.
Actually, I do.
Okay.
But if there is something that comes up during as I'm speaking, maybe Jason, you can flag
it and yeah, we'll make sure to leave time at the end for sure.
I'll try to do this maybe in half an hour and then half an hour for QA.
All right.
So yeah, how do we do search?
How do we take learnings from recommender systems and apply them to our retrieval problem?
And how do we use all our data to do it?
Right.
Our data is the signal.
How do we use this signal to improve relevance and have control over retrieval results?
I'm Daniel.
I'm CEO of Superlinked.
We have an open source product in this space, but I'll try to make this as least salesy
as possible and just focus on how these things work.
Okay.
So just to set it up, let's start with a query.
Let's take that as a problem statement.
Imagine you have a travel company and you want to offer people AI powered search and
people type in something like popular family friendly hotels with good Wi-Fi near Manhattan
midtown.
Wow.
That's like topically relevant to where you are Jason.
Under 400.
Let's say that probably under 400 there are no hotels in Manhattan midtown that fulfill
the criteria.
But when you look at this query and you think about, okay, how would I do this?
There is a lot of stuff that's going on in there.
Think about each of these components as basically either a bias or a filter.
Right?
So we either want to steer the results towards certain attributes or aspects, or there is
an outright explicit intention to have like a binary.
Yes or no.
So let's say popular would be like a numerical bias or it could be popular to a certain segment
of the users and then it's not just one number, but some other representation.
Family friendly might be something around categorical bias.
And then good Wi-Fi might be described in various ways in, let's say, the reviews of
the hotels and that's kind of like semantic bias.
And then, of course, location in jobs or travel, a couple of different areas.
Location is key, real estate, of course.
And then there is that under 400 as a filter.
Right?
So if your toolkit for dealing with this is, let's say, just a text embedding model under
the hood, it's not going to actually understand all these different types of data and you
will just get poor quality results.
So how do people deal with this today?
It's something built around basically text to SQL.
Right?
So if you think about it as kind of inputs on the left and then the query being generated
on the right, you do have that conversational query.
That's what we just saw there.
But then, you know, and now coming from kind of the recommender system world, we have some
user context, right?
Who is actually typing that query in?
Right?
What has been their history?
What did they click on?
Where are they right now?
And there might be some other context also, you know, is it morning?
Is it evening?
All kinds of other factors that could lead into your eventual query being different.
Right?
And one interesting thing to note is that these user context and other sort of contextual
parameters are often actually not text.
Right?
These might be clicks on some product IDs, let's say.
Right?
So how, if the whole thing we have here in the middle is something that takes us from
text to, let's say, a SQL query or Elasticsearch query, then you have to feed it text.
Right?
And if you have a bunch of clicks, you know, how does that work?
And then of course, the problem of text to SQL is the latency, right?
You might think quite a big SQL statement or, you know, Elasticsearch queries might
be hundreds of lines of JSON.
So how is the latency on that?
How is the reliability?
If the SQL generation is too kind of unconstrained, it's going to generate
somewhat unpredictably some queries that let's say, actually fail in some
percentage of cases, right?
So reliability might be an issue.
And then, you know, at the end of the day, somehow you are doing the stuff on the
left and you are generating a query that's obviously like compatible with your search
system, right?
So there might be some pre-filters, some boosting.
Boosting is just the concept from Elasticsearch, kind of creating a
combination of scores that then result in a certain item being ranked higher or lower.
Of course, there will be your text vector search or image vector search in there.
And then lots of focus these days on re-ranking, right?
So like, the candidates we generated with the first three steps are not that great.
So let's get a bunch of them and reorder them again.
And then maybe once we see the set of candidates, we can have some
additional rules for post-filtering.
So, you know, this is sort of what many, many teams in the industry, we mainly
look at kind of the broader e-commerce, but in media, in knowledge management,
this is what people are sort of working with and grappling and trying to optimize.
Right?
But there is obviously a lot of issues all over this place.
And, you know, even if, let's say you somehow figure it out and you generate
your query on the right, there are some things fundamentally broken about
the search systems these days, and I'll kind of call out three things.
So even if you figure out the left side of this, the right side still kind of
sucks, and I'll focus on three things.
You know, filtering today, I think is used to approximate those biases.
Right?
We talked about popularity bias or things like that.
People try to model that with a filter.
Like, okay, let's retrieve everything above three stars.
Right?
That's going to be highly rated item.
Or let's retrieve everything in, you know, 10 kilometer circle
around Manhattan midtown.
That's going to be a Boolean filter.
Right?
But if you think about the underlying preference function of the user you are
trying to model, the users is saying near Manhattan midtown, right?
If something is, you know, 11 kilometers, but it's like fitting the rest of the
query amazingly, then actually, actually that would be a good result.
Right?
But if you model these kind of biases, which you can think about some kind
of like a sigmoid function, right?
The user kind of prefers things in certain region and then the
preference kind of drops off.
If you try to model that with filters, obviously you are using a very crude
step function to approximate that smooth bias, right?
So you'll have a loss there.
So I think filters are overused.
We should be thinking about mixing signals in a more smooth way somehow.
Right?
So that's kind of one area that I think is problematic.
Then the other thing is re-ranking.
Obviously re-ranking is a big topic.
Everybody is talking about it.
It's just such an easy way to put something on top of my existing retrieval
and improve the situation a little bit.
But when you think about it, and here Jason, like I'm kind of curious,
what your take would be, but from my point of view, re-ranking is basically
like if you could wave a magic wand and have a retrieval system that, that, you
know, is the ideal retrieval system, it actually wouldn't have a re-ranking in it.
Right?
Re-ranking is purely a hack of our, you know, underlying grid retrieval sacks.
So we have to shuffle things on top of it.
Right?
Like if the underlying retrieval actually worked and the 10 things that came out
of the database for a given query were actually good, you wouldn't have to
re-rank and so, so, so nobody actually wants to do it, right?
It's, it's just some kind of hack we put on top because the, the, the first thing
sacks and we are trying to fix it with the thing that runs on top.
And, you know, obviously the issue with this is that when you re-rank, you are
only re-ranking a tiny fraction of the overall index, right?
Like if I have an e-commerce catalog and I ask for popular pens, and if a third
of my catalog is pens, and I'm relying on re-ranking to kind of reorder by popularity,
once I get the pens out of the database, then, you know, I can't get third of my
database out and re-ranking by popularity, right?
The re-ranking always applies to like less than 1% of your data.
And so whatever you miss in that candidate selection, can't, you know, you
will not fix that by re-ranking.
And so pushing as many of these signals down into the underlying retrieval, and
then just getting the right things from the database in the first place should
always be the goal that we have, right?
And so that's the category of issues that we see out there.
And then the third category is that people try to kind of abuse text embeddings
because those are the most widely available encoders for vector search.
And in principle, you can make a string out of anything, okay?
You can take a JSON object coming out of Instructor, and then you can feed it
all into a text embedding model and get the vector out, right?
This will not throw a type error.
This will sort of like seemingly work, except the text embedding model that you
use there really doesn't model the, for example, numbers included in that input
correctly, right?
Text embedding models understand numbers through how those co-occur in the
training data, they get, you know, tokenized the strings and then embeddings of those
tokens get run through the network.
And it's very noisy and there's like easy ways to figure out just how noisy.
If you just stringify some integers and then make embeddings of those strings and
calculate similarities between those vectors, you will see that there is no
like underlying concept of like 49 is one less than 50 in the latent space of the model.
And so stringifying non-text data and running it through text encoders, that's
another like big issue that exists out there.
So these three things are basically kind of the, what is wrong with like the
left side of the previous slide, right?
We had the, what just happened?
We had the previous slide, you know, we generate the query is great, but actually
the query is problematic also, right?
Because it has all these, all these issues.
Okay.
So, so how, what should we try to do instead?
Right.
You know, in principle, somehow we should figure out, you know, we should
still have the same inputs on the left.
We have our text query, we have our user context, we have other context.
And ideally we should have some kind of box that converts that
into pretty much two things.
We should, we should staff all the signals we can that look like
that bias into a vector.
And if there is explicit filter content, or if we just need to filter the
results based on, you know, access controls and so on, we should also
generate some filter predicate, right?
Like all these other things, ideally, you know, you are not doing.
So boosting is done within the embedding, re-ranking you don't have to do, because
now all your signals are in that, in the, in the vector and they feed into the
ranking, you don't really have to do post-filtering, you do the pre-filter
for access control and so on.
So this should be sort of the, the, the ideal output of your kind
of query understanding system.
And, and then, you know, we have the vector databases where they are pretty
good at like vector search and filtering, right?
So they can do that for you.
And then the other half of the problem is how do you take your data on the right
side and make these vectors that again, integrate all these signals so that then
in the middle, this thing kind of aligns, right?
So you need basically a couple of these orange boxes to do that.
And then somehow that needs to be also a concept of the feedback, right?
So I think Jason talks a lot about feedback loops, like, you know, there's
the behavioral data companies have all these clicks and all these
feedbacks and all of that.
Somehow that needs to be feeding into basically both of these boxes, right?
How, how to, how to close that loop and actually improve this over time.
Okay.
So am I sort of like making sense directionally Jason?
Is it?
Yeah.
Okay.
And okay.
So cool.
So, so now basically the rest of the problem is like, okay, how do
we make these orange boxes, right?
Like we have, we have figured it out.
We just need a way to do these transformations.
And this is where I think in the signup for the event, we call this encoder
stacking since then I started to talk about it as a mixture of encoders.
It's basically the same thing.
Um, but, but, uh, and, and, you know, this, this slide is like experimental.
Let's see.
Uh, if, if I like confuse people more than the not, but, but basically
one property of a system that actually makes this work is that it can't
just be based on a text encoders or language models, you need some other,
um, little transformation boxes that can take things like latitude,
longitude and make an embedding.
Or things like a number and make an embedding, uh, or have some
interaction data between, uh, let's say products and users or users and answers.
Um, and, and somehow you need to be able to take that signal
and make an embedding out of it.
And this is what we call these encoders in the middle.
So just running you through the picture, basically think about
the conversational query coming in.
It's, I'm basically a string, right?
And what you have to do, uh, similar to how a mixture of encoders would work
in an LLM where there is some component upfront that splits the query or, uh,
reformulates it for the input of each expert, um, within, within the MOE model.
Here we are kind of doing the same thing.
So there is some, um, uh, DSPY style optimized prompt that takes that
query and feeds each of these encoders with the appropriate input.
Okay.
So for like numerical encoder, if there is something like popular
word mentioned in the query, it would tell numerical encoder.
Okay.
Let's create this kind of bias towards, um, uh, popular things in, in, in sort
of, in the sense of a number, uh, if there would be a mention of minute and
minute down, it feeds location encoder with minute and minute down as a string.
And that encoder is trained to take that and produce, uh, uh, embedding that
let's say approximates travel distance by car between different places.
Right.
Um, and it's, you know, the basis of that is something that understands the
map, right, not if it's not trained just from like internet data, um, you know,
the graph encoder that captures the, you know, which products are interacted
with within the same user session.
That will be some kind of graph embedding, right?
That we have to train on the, uh, on our specific data.
Uh, and again, it has nothing to do with the language model really.
Right.
Um, so basically we break the problem down into kind of Lego blocks out of
which, out of which we assemble a model that has the right encoders that fit
our problem, and then it put a prompt optimizer in front of that, that feeds
those encoders with the right inputs, given the query, and it also sets the
weights for how the outputs of those encoders should be aggregated into the
final embedding.
And just to be like super clear, this final embedding will encode biases
towards location and numerical biases towards popularity and semantic biases
towards, uh, you know, family friendly, whatever good wifi hotels, right?
All of that signal will be compressed into the embedding that
comes out of this machinery.
Um, kind of make sense to, to, to out there.
Um, what are we thinking?
Um, we'll do some questions at the end.
I think some people are curious about that.
That's the FDY style prompt.
Okay.
Okay.
Cool.
Uh, and then, you know, to kind of complete the picture.
Okay.
So we have made a vector that encodes all these different things that
appear in the query and does it kind of natively because those encoders
understand those things, uh, and then, you know, user context, let's say is a,
is a user embedding that somehow also captures those interactions, right?
It could be accumulation of embeddings of the items the user
interacted with, for example, right?
Um, uh, so this might be like precomputed for each user and then to answer a
given query, you will fetch that out of the database and the same for, for the
other context.
So the, the kind of uniformization that we are trying to impose on this is that
each of these pathways makes a embedding and let's say a filter predicate if
needed, uh, and then we have an Azure aggregator on the back of that, that
somehow merges all of that stuff.
And then finally, the last dot here is a vector with some filter predicates that
compiles all these signals together.
And, and then you just send it to a vector database and do the lookup.
Okay.
Uh, and again, some of these encoders are pre-trained.
Some are unsupervisedly trained on the specific dataset.
Uh, some are, you know, we have like a couple of texts and image embedding
fine-tunes based on the domains in which we operate, um, and then you, uh, you
know, basically superlink is a framework to kind of build this orange thing.
Right.
So like all the orange stuff, we have an open source framework for that.
Um, and you know, obviously then on the other side, you need to be
feeding the vector database with your data and code it with similar machinery.
So that the vectors that, uh, sort of, uh, you know, the search vector meets
the data vector in the database and everything is kind of, uh, compatible.
Um, okay.
Now in terms of like cloud architecture or, you know, component or system
architecture, let's say, um, the way to think about it is that you have like
data on the left, uh, you have your encoder library, let's say on top, you
have your vector databases on the bottom.
We were with the red is Mongo and quadrant.
We are adding, uh, more, uh, but we, we are pretty slow on that because we
actually, uh, need those to be, uh, battle tested, you know, like we operate,
uh, in, in kind of low terabytes of index sizes.
So when you launch a connector, it's, it's, uh, you know, it's not like
a community contributed connector.
Uh, we work very closely with the core engineering teams of all those
companies to make our thing work.
Uh, with, with their product.
Um, and, and you can kind of use them interchangeably.
Uh, so superlink the wraps, not only the read and write API's of the database,
but also the management API's.
So you can kind of switch and explore between them, uh, different kind of
costs and latency, uh, trade-offs basically.
And then on the right side, uh, you basically put that API endpoints on
top of which you can build retrieval for rag and, and recommendation systems
and search and, um, people do all kinds of analytical tasks as well.
Because think about it.
Now we have vectors that compile everything, you know, about the whole
entity, right, everything you know about the user, you have an embedding for it.
Like all compiled into one embedding, uh, same for products or pieces of the
knowledge base and so on.
So, uh, we try to then make it easily kind of, uh, accessible to API's.
So you can build on, on top of that.
Okay.
Uh, and then, you know, case study wise, just kind of motivate this.
Um, we have, uh, like one of the things we published is with the jobs marketplace.
They got 50% lift in people applying for jobs.
Um, this replaced, uh, Algolia in this case.
And what I want to call out is that superlink is not really a search system.
It's, it's just like, helps you build stuff with embeddings.
And, um, that means that you have a lot of flexibility.
So this company build a bunch of tools for the, uh, people listing the jobs on
the marketplace and finding people, not just people finding jobs, right?
You have a lot more flexibility, uh, because we don't bake, uh, like just
search specific staff into the API's.
Uh, and then similar case study with the fashion, uh, retailer, um, that, that,
uh, increased, uh, you know, they added more than $10 million to the bottom
line, uh, when they started to work with us.
Um, and then I'll mention something about evals.
I don't know, Jason, to what extent you focus on evals in the course, but
basically just the TLDR is that, um, a lot of the benchmarks out there.
So you might've seen this, uh, MTB, you know, the embedding
benchmarks table and, and, and Bayer.
Um, all of these things are text data and to text query evaluation, right?
And this is like super not realistic because in reality you have a product
in the marketplace has 50 properties and maybe a couple of them will be textual,
but everything else is like some other metadata.
And so all of these benchmarks are, are kind of, uh, not really, uh, fit, uh, for,
for approximating production performance from our point of view.
That's kind of a bummer.
And also the results on these are not that good.
Like these scores top out at like 0.6 for state of the art models, because all
the models that are being evaluated here are purely text embedding models.
So that's, that's like the, the somehow information retrieval benchmarks are
stuck in this local, uh, local, uh, you know, maximum.
And, uh, we have been working on datasets to, to, to kind of fix that.
There are some other efforts out of Stanford that are kind of trying to add
more metadata and more kind of realistic, uh, looking datasets, but yeah, we are
very early in that respect and of course, making datasets is hard because, um,
the traditional methods of how you generate candidates and then label them
with the LLM, uh, work with like text retrieval methods.
And so that's the same kind of issue.
Like you are trying to measure a system that doesn't just work with
text retrieval methods, but all these other things.
Uh, so it's a little bit of a chicken and egg, and then, uh, you have to score
way more candidates with an LLM.
It can be expensive.
So, I mean, that's kind of part of why this is stuck.
Um, and yeah, I'll, I'll kind of put there, um, just as a summary, we have
an open source, free to use Apache 2.0 framework on, on GitHub that allows
you to do a lot of what I described.
Um, you can run that yourself.
Uh, we know of a couple of companies actually running this in production
in like decent scale, you know, a hundred thousand items, uh, uh, tens of thousands
or maybe a hundred thousand queries per day kind of scale.
And then we have a cloud product that, uh, we work with companies more hands on,
uh, where we have, uh, some proprietary tech to scale this app to like, you know,
hundred terabytes of click data and millions, millions of queries per day.
So I'll, I'll post their, uh, questions.
I'm very happy to share anything people like are interested in.
This was great.
I also really liked the fact that there were no adjectives.
It was everything.
It was just like numbers on scale and like, you know, that's, I just, just
want to call that out as something that's, uh, you know, really appreciate that.
Um, yeah.
And what everyone told me is like, it works at large scales production,
enterprise, but you know, you're in like low terabytes is kind of a, a fun flex.
So our big, our biggest vector search index we have ever operated so far is two terabytes.
And our biggest like, uh, input data set that we, uh, that we ingested, uh, is on
the scale approaching hundred terabytes.
And this is actually interesting that, that, you know, you hear about this unstructured
data taking over the world when we started working with the e-commerce company, the
product catalog is maybe in the hundreds of gigabytes, right?
Text and images and all that.
And the click data is, you know, potentially hundred terabytes.
So, uh, I don't know where, like, like which dashboard people are looking at, but
I see there is like way more clicks than, than text and images, uh, in the
data warehouses of these companies.
So, um, and if you don't use the data, right, this is a problem because that's
where the signal is, right?
And that's the lesson from the recommender system world, right?
Is that if we don't use the behavioral data, you know, if you have been on
TikTok ever, then you understand that this is something that you absolutely have to
use to help your users converge to what they are looking for.
Oh, I guess before, before I asked the big question, um, I'm personally curious,
like right now we're kind of doing these like specialization because we need
different encoders to do different things.
Um, what do you feel is the timeline on sort of even this part of the stack
being like better lessened away?
I get at what scale will we not need these kinds of tools or is it going to be the
case that we're just never going to get there in the near term?
Um, so are you saying at which point a text encoder can replace the specialized
encoders basically?
Or even just, you know, maybe it is just a transformer that takes in the click
data and like queries in and that's all we need versus actually having to
specialize in the speed and sort of a durable architecture.
I just saw some papers recently on using transformers and like item embeddings
and stuff like that.
Yeah.
Um, I think there is a trade off in, uh, you know, Ken, you know, maybe stitch
fix or, or, um, with YouTube, can YouTube train a transformer on their click data
that, um, we'll outperform everything.
Probably yes.
Right.
That's probably the answer.
Um, Ken, an engineer in a company that wants to solve information problem, uh,
actually solve that problem with reasonable costs and time to market and all of that.
Um, I would hate for the answer to that, to just be used this black box thing here.
I think it's much better for that engineer's career and, and also actually
in terms of performance, um, to have some kind of toolkit that allows you to assemble
something that's, that's a bit more specific to that company.
Um, because you know, like the, the, because if you take your soul to the extreme,
then there is also like no companies, right?
Because yes, they had, so, so I, you know, for now I operate in the world at like
first-party data is a thing and companies are capturing this, this data.
And they have slightly different user experience they want to build and slightly
different business objectives and having a way to express that into a retrieval
system is how you basically get the edge until, you know, AGI takes over everything.
And, you know, let's talk in, uh, I don't know, a couple of years, and maybe we'll
be all sitting around the campfire thinking back about the times we still
had to work, I don't know, right.
You know, I think everyone has different AGI timelines on that kind of stuff.
Um, cool.
Let's jump into some of the, uh, uploaded questions.
So the most up-to-the-question was, can you walk through the same hotel
query example and tell us what superlink will do to help you, uh, service that query?
So let's remind ourselves the query.
Um, yeah, so basically think about it as, um, you know, with this specific client,
the hotel, like the specific client is not booking, but it's a similar company.
So let's take booking as an example.
Think about the data that booking knows about the hotel, right?
It will be a bunch of reviews.
It will be all kinds of metadata.
Uh, there will be some categorical properties.
Uh, the categorical property of like amenities might have a cardinality of
you know, 10,000 things that potentially can be turned on.
Um, and yeah, there'll be of course, location data and there'll be images as well.
Um, so, so there's the dataset and prices, of course, there's
the dataset we are working on top.
So you would basically go and create a superlink index for hotels where you
would, um, have your data schema of like hotel review and user and clicks.
You, it starts with a couple of Python classes with like typed properties.
And then you would create an index for hotels where you, um, uh, select these
encoders and bind them to the different properties of those input objects.
Um, and then when you send, we will push the data into the system, those encoders
are used in their outputs that are aggregated to make, let's say hotel vector.
Okay.
So this is the data ingestion part.
Um, and then when the query comes in and you get this kind of
text from a given user ID, right.
Um, it gets basically broken apart into like, okay, popular, uh, and that gets
pushed into the, you know, some kind of popularity counter encoder as like, okay,
we need positive bias on this dimension.
Family friendly.
We have a categorical encoder that is not like a filter, but it creates bias towards,
uh, you know, there is kind of like multi-hot, but then like high cardinality
categories need something a little bit different.
Uh, so again, there is an encoder that gets, uh, kind of, uh, prompted towards
creating positive bias towards family friendly like categories.
Um, and, and again, like with location, there is a location encoder, right.
That, that on the data side, eight, all the lead longs of all the hotels
and on the query side can get prompted with the text location, um, and make
an embedding that, uh, uh, such that the cosine similarity in the search afterwards
approximates some kind of travel distance between, between places, right.
Um, and then under 400, it generates a filter predicate in, in the
super linked DSL basically.
Um, so, so somehow this all gets compiled into an embedding that has, that expresses
all of those, uh, biases, uh, plus the filter, and then that gets sent to the underlying,
uh, vector database to get the 10 hotels that are family friendly and have good
wifi and whatever are popular, uh, and then without any re-ranking, that's the 10
hotels you get, uh, out, right.
Um, and, and, you know, uh, I also mentioned we have some custom fine
tunes, for example, one fun learning is that, um, for, for text embeddings,
um, it's actually worth it to do text embedded, text embedding fine tuning.
You can't fine tune text embedding model to understand addresses, right.
There's not what I mean.
I mean, things like, um, for example, this adjective noun association.
So good wifi, if you just take like whatever MTB winning text embedding
model and you give it a bunch of reviews and some reviews will say bed wifi and
some reviews will say good wifi, and then you search for a good wifi, you get a mix
of both good and bad wifi out, right.
Because the model, uh, over index is on wifi, not the association of good
wifi, right.
So for example, we have fine tunes for that, right.
So like the sentiment layer, um, text embeddings for, for reviews and things
like that, um, but, but that's like tiny, tiny part of the puzzle, hopefully
as I now kind of explained that there is no amount of fine tuning you can do to
understand like, uh, uh, something like numerical bias, uh, and, and that you
can find out by, by just, uh, uh, yeah, trying to understand how numbers are
represented by the text encoder and how they are tokenized as strengths and how
embeddings of those tokens, like roughly approximate the actual numerical
value of the number, but only roughly.
Um, and so, yeah, there is space for text embedding fine tuning, but the
applications are limited to actually eating text, right.
And a lot of this is not about eating text.
Yeah.
And I like the example of good wifi.
I feel like, you know, in the course we talk about this, like, okay, if you build
like a dating app, it's like, is I love coffee and I hate coffee, the same thing
versus I love tea, well, it's not actually, well, not this is similar.
It's whether there's actually some other outcome that happens with the end, whether
there's like a match or something like that.
I'm studying this another good example.
Um, one of the questions I think is also pretty relevant is something I'm very
curious about, which is how often do you refresh embedding models?
I feel like stitch fix retraining and keeping these things stable was
like a whole part of research.
Um, how, how does super think about that?
Yeah.
So if, uh, if you train an encoder, you take all these inputs, you feature
engineer, all these different types of data, you make a custom encoder, like
a two tower model or some other kind of training policy, uh, then kind of, uh,
distribution drift on any of those properties forces you to retrain the
whole thing, right?
This is, this is a problem and it can happen, you know, as often as
distributions on any of those things, like meaningfully change, right?
This is of course, uh, specific to the given case.
Um, and it's kind of one of the benefits of not doing that.
And instead doing this kind of composition of encoders, uh, because
you, if you do have to retrain something, it's going to be one of those boxes
in the middle, not the whole thing.
Right.
Um, you can selectively update parts of your model this way.
Um, and like save yourself a bunch of trouble.
Um, that's kind of one thing.
The other thing is as your data changes and you have to re-encode, right?
Like let's say popularity of the hotel changes and price doesn't or price
changes and description doesn't, right?
Do you have to take the whole entity and re-encode the whole thing?
Or can you rerun like one pathway through this and update, let's say the
embedding signal of the, of the location and then aggregate with the rest of the
outputs, uh, you know, you can think about like caching on the individual encoder
level, for example, so in terms of data updates, this is kind of breaks it down
into more manageable components in terms of retraining, it also means that you
can think about retraining individually for the, for the components.
Uh, yeah.
And then, you know, how do we detect that the retraining is needed?
Um, I think the more you can productize the retraining and just kind of do it.
And it's not too expensive for the individual components.
I think it's a good idea to do that.
But if it's like a big retraining operation, then yeah, you'll have to be
more careful about like measuring.
Okay.
Uh, now we, now, uh, the distribution have drifted and all our embeddings
are clustered over here and we are not actually using the space.
And so let's like retrain to kind of stretch it out and identify the
meaningful structures in the data again.
Right.
I mean, I can, I can keep talking about this for a long time.
I'm just wondering, is there anything else, uh, coming up?
I see.
Hey, Danielle.
Uh, it looks like Jason, uh, got kicked out somehow.
Um, I'm going to just pull from, uh, the Slido questions.
Um, how often do you refresh each embedding model?
It seems like there's a lot of overhead involved.
Yeah, I think I, I, I just did that one.
Oh, sorry.
How about keyword heavy query user is looking for a GUID.
Mm-hmm.
Uh, yeah.
So if you are looking for like exact matches, then that's for me,
that's a part of the filter.
Um, yes, there is a caveat here that I totally skipped, which is sparse,
uh, data structures, right?
Um, that's kind of a world that, you know, you have to be careful about.
Um, that's kind of a world that, you know, you either force it to be a
part of your filtering mindset, right?
Because this is kind of filters, right?
Like I'm looking for this exact thing somehow.
Um, so you either kind of, you know, stack it into that part of your stack.
Uh, or do you think about this encoders as, um, either producing dense or also
sparse representations, and then kind of, it's more part of this situation
over here, um, you know, once vector databases will be a bit more flexible
about having like composition of sparse and dense, uh, representations and queries.
I think we can treat it more like part of this encoder side of the world.
For now, we treat it more as a part of the filter side of the world,
at least in our product.
So like keyword filters in a way.
And we use the, you know, underlying kind of sparse indexing, BM25E, uh,
machinery of the underlying database for that.
Can you talk more about how the encoder should be designed and then in turn, how
that is combined with the functioning of the aggregator?
Mm-hmm.
So, I mean, encoder is really just some sort of input and, uh, some kind
of dense representation output.
Um, and, and, you know, then the aggregators get weights from the LLM
that does the query understanding, or you can actually train a weights model
separately, so you can have a model that given the query, you train on your
click data and it sets the weights.
Um, and, and then the aggregator can have all kinds of different forms.
You know, the most simple thing you should think about is just, you kind
of unit normalize the encoder outputs and your dimension wise concatenate
them into a big vector, right?
This would be your kind of, uh, starting aggregator, uh, strategy, right?
The cool thing about that is that the signal is encoding in separate, you
know, ranges of the dimensions, uh, which helps explainability on the query side.
And also it allows you to do the weights at query time, right?
I can put different, I can scale different ranges of these dimensions differently.
And then the search vector can express, okay, I actually care about this signal
that much more than this other signal.
So it's like query time weights on those components.
The same way that like mixture of experts model would score the outputs of the
encoders before it aggregates them.
Um, and then maybe I'll just say one more kind of tidbit, um, which is we do
a lot of vector aggregation, so like whatever comes out of here with the user
context vectors and so on, we do a lot of like averaging and aggregating.
And time decaying between embeddings.
And we noticed that it really matters.
What the, how the encoder is trained, uh, versus how, let's say you average
10 of those embeddings together afterwards.
How, how did you, how well does that represent the data in the 10 source
vectors and rule of thumb, the more efficient the encoder, the, the, the
kind of less well it responds to this aggregation, right?
Because it's already very efficiently encoding stuff in very few dimensions.
If you average a bunch of those things together, you will
basically destroy the information.
And the, the, the more sparse the encoder is all the way to, you know,
like bag of words or whatever, uh, the, the better it responds to aggregation
because it's literally like union of keywords that appears in the document.
Right?
So those are the, that's the ease of aggregation scale, like very sparse
aggregation is meaningful, very dense aggregation is hard.
If you can train some sparsity into your encoders, then the aggregation will survive.
So like, if I aggregate the vector that represents Apple car and motorbike,
somehow all three signals will still stay expressed in the average vector as
opposed to being some point in the middle of those three things that
doesn't mean anything anymore.
I hope that
the learnings we had as stitchbooks as well.
So it's kind of cool to sort of see this come up again.
I do want to ask one question just as I saw this like on the, uh, in the question
with like, and in my opinion, it's maybe like a spicy question, but what, what are
your thoughts on, you know, using things like graph structures and graphs are
treatable when it comes to these things?
Like I think I've personally been very embedding told for most of my life.
I'm very curious where you sit on this ideas.
So we throw, we kind of see graphs as one of the inputs, right?
I have a graph encoder on here.
Um, I think it's somewhat of a stylistic debate.
Like what's the, uh, what's the steering wheel and what's the car, right?
Is graph the input to the embeddings or is graph kind of the master data
structure, and then we hang the embeddings off of the graph notes, right?
Yeah.
Um, but yeah, so from our point of view, graphs, or just users clicking on things
and through that, making an implicit link, right?
Um, this is a useful input.
We want to use that in our representations.
We have, you know, we train this graph embeddings and aggregate
them with all the other stuff.
Um, and then, you know, when people talk about graph, right?
I think they also talk about like.
Post-filtering of the results by traversing some nodes.
Uh, so maybe like using vector search to discover the interesting graph
nodes and then expanding to neighbors.
And then that's the result, right?
So, um, but that expansion, if you do like one hope neighbor expansion, it's
basically, yeah, you can do a SQL query for that.
I think like graph database is useful if you want to do very long traversals
or calculate some, uh, more, you know, harder to calculate graph
metrics, like node centrality.
Like if you really care about that, and if you want to have a data
structure that you can update a lot and then, uh, a lot, you know, uh, high,
high kind of throughput, uh, identification of some connected components or whatever.
Then, okay, graph database is useful from our point of view, graph is the input.
Uh, you should have it as a part of your encoder portfolio.
Um, and yeah, the rest is kind of filtering.
Makes sense.
Makes sense.
I think we're pretty aligned there as well.
Great.
I mean, there's only 10 minutes left.
This is the question I kind of generally ask everyone, which is, uh,
actually, I think there is like one more kind of just a landmark on that
landscape of a previous question.
You know, people generate these graphs with the LLM basically, right?
Or they, they kind of, um, uh, have a language model generate graph queries
or inspect the results of those queries and then make more queries.
Um, one thing that's to be kept in mind there is if your nodes in the graph
have a bunch of metadata, that's not textual, right?
Numbers and so on.
And you are using your, an LLM to kind of navigate the process of doing
some retrieving, looking at results, you know, uh, whatever, call it agents.
Right.
Um, the main thing I want to get across is that the pilot of your airplane sees
the whole world as string.
This is like fundamental problem, right?
Because a lot of the, let's say metadata on your graph nodes or
otherwise are not strings, right?
So you're using like a, like a pilot that's like stringifying the world
and then processing it, right?
And I see, you know, information retrieval as a way to kind of connect
that pilot to sets of data that are actually not text.
And the link there has to be encoders trained to understand
this other kind of data, right?
And, you know, that's also goes to, you know, will it all be just
LLMs at the end of the day?
I don't think so because of this, right?
That, that basically there is some way you have to process other kinds of data.
And maybe that other way doesn't even have a tokenizer, right?
It has some other way to feature engineer the, yeah.
Yeah.
And then when you said this, like pilot sees the world as a string, I just go back
to the example where like every LLM thinks 3.11 is bigger than 3.9.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's just such a tiny, maybe example of the overall problem, right?
Yeah.
Like it's such a, just like a little gateway.
And once you go, start going down the rabbit hole, you'll discover that we
have been to some extent lied to, right?
Like, actually this is like very poor way to see the world.
Like you can't really stringify things and that can't be the end of this.
Right?
So yeah, I encourage people, you know, take some embeddings of stringified
numbers and go play with that and become like even more embedding built in a way.
Yeah.
I mean, there's a joke that I used to tell when I was doing like a lot of like
embedding work, it's like, you know, you ask AI what's 10 plus 10 is 16.
You say, no, it's 20.
And then you ask it again.
It says 17.
Yes.
And it says 18.
In the limit, you'll get the correct, but you know, until you get to real
AGI, you still have to just sort of.
Hard code a couple of these filters and get this to work properly.
It's a very expensive and slow way to get unpredictable results.
Right.
I'm like, I like that you're also down the whole path of like using a lot
of metaphors to explain these concepts.
Well, the last question I like to ask everybody is what is something you
feel like we are not asking?
What is something that is sort of missing in sort of the ways that we in
general have been thinking about these kinds of systems?
Yeah.
So I think this whole like, we have to look at the world through other
lenses than text tokenization.
I think that's one of my big ones.
The other one is the re-ranking, right?
Like I think re-ranking is overused.
All the re-ranking models out there, pre-trained, cross-encoders, or actually
also the late interaction stuff.
Like I want people to understand that that's all text operated also, right?
Like it, you know, tries to address issues that I think should be addressed
in the underlying retrieval and is denominated in text, both on the
query side and on the data side.
So that's maybe extension of the first point, but re-ranking is kind of abused.
And it's just a function of how easy it is to add on top of an existing system.
So I think, yeah, like let's, you know, take a magnifying glass and look at our
re-ranking and then the filters is the other thing, like if you are generating
from a text query, some kind of insane filter predicate that actually should be
smooth biases, because that's the underlying preference function of the user
or of the system doing the retrieval.
Right?
You know, we have all seen like this Venn diagram in high school that like,
if you intersect too many of those circles, the middle point is like very small.
And that's what you are doing when you stack a bunch of Boolean filters, right?
As opposed to creating some mix of some distributions that add up to
kind of the results you want.
So less filtering, less re-ranking and less just using a text embedding or
text understanding model for what we do.
I think those are my three sort of commandments.
Yeah, I think, I think we're definitely going to move towards a world where maybe
in the future there are encoders that can handle all this data, but not as text.
But yeah, I think your example of just the pilot sees everything as a string is
sort of a big issue.
And even though there might be things like visual language models that can now
have like image tokens or audio tokens, those modalities are still quite, quite
broad and that don't really cover the information with people use cases that
are specific to many, many real problems in the industry.
That's right.
And you should combine these things together, right?
So I'm not saying text embedding bad.
I'm not saying call Pali bad.
I'm saying that's good for that part of the input, but we have all these like
other data and we need to integrate it somehow to get the maximum kind of signal
and edge out of it in terms of quality of results, in terms of the control we
have over the results and so on.
And I encourage everybody to check our GitHub.
Again, it's free.
Well, maybe, maybe it's not free because you have to give it the GitHub star.
Right.
So it's like proof of work kind of thing.
We will make sure that everyone gets the email and we'll make sure the
link goes directly to the star tab.
Perfect.
We'll share the slides at the end.
We'll share some study notes once we generate those and, you know, expecting
email sometime tomorrow with everything that is mentioned in this talk.
And, uh, Daniel really appreciate this.
I think the, this metaphor of the world being seen as a string is a big one.
And, uh, I'm excited to hear more about what you guys are working on.
Thanks for having me and, uh, good luck everybody with the course
and, uh, see you out there.
Awesome.
Take care.
I'll follow up with you.
Cheers.
Bye.
