Good morning everyone.
And I've discovered something very interesting about Claude.
Wait, let me show you the, let me send you the tweet actually.
I've been having Ivan take a look at how structured outputs
changes our ability to reason.
Okay.
And basically, 4.0 effectively is like pretty invariant to the
name, naming of attributes, but Claude is very sensitive.
So if you do reasoning, colon, list string, GSM 8K is like 75% accurate,
but the benchmark is 96 or like correct answer.
String performs better than answer a string.
That's not necessarily bad reasoning.
You get what you asked for.
Yeah.
Well, it was like a 4.0 is like pretty resilient to that, but I was surprised
that, and I think is something to do with how anthropic is trained, but
across the paintings.
Yeah.
I feel like it's sometimes hard to reason about what gets lost when you train
on like a subset of data, and now you're just like in a part of the space that
hasn't seen as much training data and yeah, how much of what it's learned
elsewhere actually gets moved to that space.
Now, I want like correct step-by-step reasoning, colon, string.
I'm going to do some bootstrapping on the evals to see if I can get
some like distributions up.
But
you got to do it.
I mean, it'd be super interesting to, not super, it'll be if you made a stretch,
slightly interesting to have names like answer that will save 1000 kittens or
answer that will get me a $50 tip.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's outrageous.
Yeah.
That's not ideal, but I wish I could say I was surprised.
Another thing I've seen people claim to do better is rather than
generate the JSON right up front, they'll generate natural language output first.
And then have a translation step from natural language text to JSON just
because for the majority of the training that has been the output form.
And it's more accurate to go from a natural output to JSON than straight
away solve the task with the JSON output.
Totally agree.
I think that's been sort of historically our beliefs.
And so this, this set of evals is my goal is like these set of evals will
show that it doesn't matter or figure out under what circumstances it does matter.
And so it looks like for 4.0, it doesn't matter, but for Anthropic, there
might still be some, some lack of training data, which makes sense because
4.0 has I think been fine tuned with way more JSON structured data, or as
a clod wants XML and there's a whole like step that people like Anthropic
is kind of secretive about, so there's some other rules.
Yeah.
It's very interesting.
Hopefully in another year or so, all this black magic stuff is going to dwindle
down and then we would have like more reasonable expectations on how these
things should behave, but right now it's, it's quite a bit of tricks to
get something really good out of it.
But it can dwindle either because we improve the model or because we just
learn the tricks and they no longer feel like black magic, or they can get
integrated into the system prompt so that whatever weird tricks we do get
applied by default in a way that's invisible to us.
Yeah.
I was just hoping it's going to be the first one, which becomes like, so
either by training, getting more of these use cases into their fine
tuning sets or whatever, they just become like reasonable creatures that
don't have to be enticed with a hundred dollars or kittens and stuff.
Yeah.
I mean, you also, I mean, the thing that causes them really to direct how they
generate output in large part is the preference optimization step and different
people have different preferences.
And yeah, who knows if the thing that you want is actually the thing that
other people have wanted, wanted enough that even if they worked perfect as
they were trained, like maybe they would still do things that we don't like.
Yeah.
To, to add to this point too, we I'm finding that even with a couple of
few shot examples, few shot examples with JSON structure gets you effectively
the same evals as what, like what Claude and, and open AI said they are.
So if asking for JSON drops you 2%, having five examples, but he brings you
back to the 96% that they reported.
And so it's kind of promising that like, it's still steerable.
But then are you, yeah, it seems like then you should compare it to what
would happen if you had you should few shot examples, but not structured output.
I would just use instructor to structure it.
And then I didn't test that.
Cool.
I mean, I don't think there's that many people, so we can actually
keep this pretty, pretty casual.
But if anyone has any questions first, we can jump into that.
I think this week we mostly talked about fine tuning and thinking about collecting
data, then we had a VTours talk this morning.
All right.
See you guys later.
So one of the, before this course started, Jason and I said, at least
aspired to have to help people who had already started projects.
And we talked about going from MVP to really viable product.
So we've got few enough here.
I'd be interested in a little sort of like for the five of you, where
are you in terms of projects?
Do you have one that you're, that you, that you're working on?
Where is that in the process?
So I've been working on, in Adobe on the AI assistant that we have.
And, and so we already have a release product, it's been out in the market
for a while now, and we have been obviously eye-tracing on both the quality of that
system, but also adding capabilities and support for languages and so forth.
So, so there's a, like lots of tracks going on and there's a lot of activity
and different directions you want to take the product, improve it, get
learned from feedback, those sorts of things.
So it is, it's, it's been quite a journey.
And some of these things that have been discussed, like we also faced things
like around routing and the trade-offs with routing, how, how it impacts accuracy
because if the router is wrong, then then onwards, it's a, it's a challenge.
And see to a whole lot.
Yeah.
So I think so far the course has been really practical.
The one thing that is a bit of a challenge that I'm not sure has been
covered is that we work with documents and those are really, really general,
like the kind of things people want to get out of documents and the nature
of documents themselves, like the domains, the lens, the language,
the constructs that they have.
And in order to build something that works for a large group of people,
it's a really broad space to like slice and dice it into like small, like small,
either based on constructs or based on kind of questions people will ask.
It's a really massive space.
And so that to some extent, obviously the corresponding part of it, the
evaluations of those things have been a bit of a challenge as opposed to like
something that is, they like give a more or less a closed system and compartmentalizing
the kind of questions people are going to ask or the things that you are expected
to support is relatively narrower versus with documents, anybody can bring their
like tax form or their contract or whatever else and have a very different
kind of expectation on how the system should behave or what it should be able
to do, that sort of thing.
So that is, I think the only the biggest challenge I would say, as opposed to
the other examples that were considered in this course.
Do you, do you have an ontology for document types so that you can break down
and say, maybe I would imagine it's even like a hierarchical ontology, but like
X percent are forms and 20% are publications and do you have some ontology?
Yeah.
So both on the, on the document type, like both with respect to like the
semantics, also the structure, like what kind of a document is it?
Like you can have presentations in any domain.
You can have like forms in any domain.
So there's a domain sort of thing.
Then there's a more like a layout based ontology.
There's obviously ontology on question types, like the kind of questions
that people are asking, but there's also stuff about like, what are they achieving
to do, right?
So a lot of people are trying to, let's say, understand something better.
A lot of people are trying to create something out of what they are reading.
Right.
So, so there might be different kinds of end goals in mind that the people
might have as, as they use the system.
So, so yeah, all those things exist.
The problem is obviously the combinatorial explosion.
And by the way, I think the other big one is languages.
Like, is it an English document versus French?
So that's another big one.
Length is also a pretty big one because some documents could be just like, most
documents are less than like 10, 20 pages, but they are quite a big number of
interesting documents that are running to hundreds or 200 and so forth.
Plus is it a single document they want, or it's like a group of documents.
So there's, there's like an dimensional of this complexity that kind of piles up.
And, and we do try our best to cover good ground with respect to what's the most
common ones and so forth, but it is still a challenge, like even for automated
things, I mean, to what degree can you even attack a small fractions, for example,
is like French contracts that are greater than three pages, like just identifying
some real world data like that is hard.
And obviously we don't expect LLMs to be able to generate coherent things in that
very niche domains either.
So, so there's data challenge, there's evaluation challenge.
There's also the generalizability challenge that to what extent will the
system even kind of usually does tend to hold up, but it's kind of crazy that
it's through Adobe.
It really is just all PDFs.
Yeah.
I didn't mention one other thing, scans is another one that that gives me behavior
once in a while with all the OCR works and also tables is another one, which is,
yeah, sorry, I won't keep going on, but, but there's a, like a 10 of complexity
even like just, just with documents.
Yeah.
I'm surprised there hasn't just been some kind of announcement that says like
Anthropic and Adobe are partnering up.
Cause I think a lot of what Anthropic has been doing has been around this
like generic processing where one workflow they demonstrated was having
Opus write prompts and being able to map, produce Haiku tasks over many, many PDFs
or, you know, being able to take screenshots and say, oh, they only map
Haiku across all the PDF images and sort of find the right information.
Yeah.
I guess maybe in your situation, especially in like the Adobe situation,
really there might be a good reason to think about models like copali and
stuff like that, because everything is just ultimately just an image.
Right.
I think that language component is going to still be relatively unsolved.
I really don't have any even inkling as to how to address that without
addressing the foundation model.
Yeah.
And those are all like good directions that some of them we have been looking at.
Like I last I checked, I think it's primarily English only also the license.
I don't think it's very friendly, but yeah, but yeah, those are really good
directions and I think the thing we are on, right, the path we are on, I think
it'll just keep getting better as the foundational models improve.
So that's a good situation to be in, but there's all this variability of when
it's going to land and what works it will bring.
Like GPT-4 has not been all like awesome.
Like it has its own twists and turns to get, I think some of them were also
kind of mentioned by other participants in this course.
So yeah, so there's all of that, but yeah, it's just part of the game, I guess.
Oh, definitely.
Matthew, did you want to...
The question was you guys wanted to know like where we're at, what we're building.
Yeah.
So we are also operating on documents and we're kind of creating a pool of
contexts that people can use to be productive, if I can just state that simply.
And oh, I lower my hand.
Sorry.
Yeah.
So that's kind of what we're doing.
We're pre-MVP even, we're just like prototype and our RAG is the RAG that
you would implement if you didn't really know much about RAG, it's like very,
it's like, I mean, we've done, one thing we've done is a lot of things from
scratch, like we're doing our own processing of Markdown, our own parsing of that.
We did some TV and film scripts and stuff, and that had its own logic and all that.
And then vector similarity search.
And, but every week that passes in this course, I get more and more frustrated
because I see this robust approach that you guys are offering us and I don't have
the time, I haven't, I've been so busy, I haven't had the time to actually do it.
But I see it all and I see it, I'm like, yes, yes, yes, every week.
And I want it so bad, but just we've been, we're doing investor stuff and I
had just been so busy.
So my apologies as a bad student to you guys, cause I know what you're
offering is really valuable.
So yeah, that's where we're at.
And one thing that I have a question about is like, what are some strategies you have too?
I started to work on some of the notebooks and an experiment with kind of translating
what I learned there into our own synthetic data and everything.
But like, how do you keep that close to your actual, your actual production
implementation or like it's our prototype implementation?
Like those are some strategies I'd like to ask more about at some point.
Cause I feel like I can model this.
I can do it in Python and like for chunking or whatever, like I want to use
what we actually use instead of some copy in Python, something similar.
So that's kind of where I'm at.
And I feel like it's like holding me back a little bit because I'm nervous.
I'm like, I don't want to get so into this that then I have to figure out, okay, how
do I actually make sure that my chunking these different things we're doing
resembles what we're actually doing?
Yeah.
I mean, really the machine learning data scientists in me mostly thinks about sort
of what kind of logging do I have in place and does that logging give me the
right shape of data, right?
So yeah, our examples are in Python.
We have our own like search tools, but really the thing that matters in the
first sort of two weeks is going to be, we need to somehow track a string and we
need to somehow track a list of chunk IDs.
And our only assertion is whether or not the chunk ID that we care about is being
returned in our search system, right?
So as long as in your prototyping, you still build some unit that retrieves
chunk IDs and tracks that somehow.
That's where you can say, okay, well, as long as I send this to a
dataset and brain trust now, maybe three weeks from now, I'll finally have time.
Then I can start doing this analysis offline.
We should be having chunk IDs when we do this returning the results, because in the
next step we might want to do re-ranking and the next step after that we might
want to do citations.
And so we're never really in a position where we would want to ignore the tracking
of that information, right?
So I guess my follow-up is like why, like in this example of doing synthetic data,
why couldn't we just say, let me randomly sample some chunks from my database,
generate a question, and then pass that question through our prototype system?
Like does our system not return chunk IDs?
Right.
That because we've made a simplifying assumption.
And if we don't return chunk IDs, how could we think about citations or building
UI to collect citation data in the future?
But I would mostly focus on the abstraction of just like, what are the
logs I have and what are the artifacts I'm saving, right?
And then in terms of the implementation, yeah, I do agree.
Like we should almost always be just hitting something that looks like
production, whether it's staging.
We really shouldn't be sort of building a thing in JavaScript and then having
some Python code that does like lookups in LanceDB, if that's not what we're using.
That drift is going to cause huge issues, right?
So for example, is it, is it kind of a good practice if we do, we're using PG
vectors and if you do a vector similarity search and we do that in an API route,
for example, or in an edge function on super base, you would do that same
implementation, a very similar, just the using the same cosine distance, but use
Python and that would be acceptable.
Like that as long as it's the same basic formula for like doing the cosine.
Ooh, I mean, at a large enough scale, the implementation does change how you're
recalling, I guess the question is like, why wouldn't you do your tests in PG
vector too?
Well, we would, but I would imagine like we would be using Python to do those
tests and using the same function, same approach to getting to doing that, that
similarity.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
The Python code would just hit PG vector and then, yeah, I think that's
definitely the right way of doing it.
And that's a common practice.
Like we say like, okay, these engineers are building this app a certain way.
We know we just need to make a Python version that does that cosine similarity
search similar in the same way.
Exactly.
Yeah.
We just want to make sure that it's not in production.
We don't like run tests and like slow down prod and some like really
straightforward stuff, but
I started looking into something called the observable framework.
Have you, have you heard of that?
I feel like there was a couple things called observable, like the JavaScript.
Yeah.
It's like they have JavaScript notebooks.
Yes.
Yes.
Yeah.
So like, and they also have something called the observable framework where you
can make like data-driven apps, data apps.
And I was hoping that could be a way that I could bridge the gap between like the
Python world and our app and kind of pull on some of the same resources.
We have this monitor repo that like we use all kinds of packages and stuff.
And I wasn't able to get like the JavaScript connection really to how I
think it could be, but I don't know if you guys have any idea about that or
something similar that would kind of let me bridge that gap.
So for, for some of the work that I did with Limitless, all of our
tests were in JavaScript.
It was just running a Node.js.
We like, I mean, for, for us, like the app was in Node, but our tests, I just
like ran in Bun because it was easier just to like run test.js files.
And then all of our tests ended up just being like jests.
And then as long as like for Limitless, we used a vendor called Gentrace at the time.
But again, it's the same thing, right?
Like it would give us an API that says, okay, let me fetch a data set.
Once I had this data set of question IDs and chunk IDs, let me loop over each
question, make an API call to Postgres, get the chunk IDs back and do that
comparison.
And then when I get those scores, you write them back into Gentrace or to
BrainTrust and that like the, the, the observability, the data set, eval
management stuff that can be pretty much like language agnostic.
I wouldn't force yourself to use Python if, if you already have a good
monorepo, it might make sense to just have some kind of.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
A question that I was like, okay, should we, cause I like the idea of staying
in Python in some ways because LanceDB, I didn't see they have, he mentioned it
with TypeScript API, for example.
And I'm pretty sure they do.
I think the, the annoying thing, which is a very specific technical detail is
JavaScript does not have good support for arrow format.
Like you just don't really like often save tables.
Right.
Exactly.
Yeah.
But I think the solution is you just kind of, you write the data to one of
these tests, testing for modders like Gentrace and BrainTrust.
And so what it just looks like is you just make one get request to get the
data set, and then you write a bunch of post requests to write the individual results.
I wouldn't let the availability of, I wouldn't let the choice of what database
you use drive the rest of your stack.
Like the difference between PG Vector and LanceDB is just not great enough for that
to be the thing that shapes what language you use or something like that.
I think you should figure out, do you have developers who like writing
JavaScript or developers who prefer Python or that you want your friend
and developers to be able to switch over easily to work on your backend
or you don't care about that.
And I would, I would use that as how I determine my language.
And then you can make PG Vector or LanceDB or Chrome or whatever else work.
And most of our, like all of the workflow can be run on almost any of these.
Right.
And so then the actual implementations of these flywheels, then that is,
it can be whatever you want.
Right.
I mean, yeah, I think, I think that's kind of the lesson that I'm taking here.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I wouldn't really like marry ourselves.
So, okay, we have to use LanceDB or have to use Baintrust.
Right.
A lot of these are just tools.
Again, like the abstraction I mostly focus on is what are these test data
sets that I can preserve because those test data sets are language agnostic.
Right.
I can load that question, question string, chunk ID pair.
That's, that's saved in Postgres.
I can load that in JavaScript.
I can load that in Python.
Right.
It's just ultimately going to be what languages do your, do people on your
team feel comfortable with.
And the benefit again, is like with these new observability tools before you
might say, well, if I do it in pandas, I can do data analysis and visualization,
but now they're, they're usually handled by other vendors.
And so even that isn't much of a constraint.
Yeah.
Okay.
I would hate to sort of have to have the, have your team have a go fully JS
modern repo and just some random like slash eval repo on GitHub.
Right.
Cause then what's going to happen is chances are today things are in sync, but
six months later, someone joins, someone leaves and that, that, that maintenance
of that repository is something that might fall behind.
Yeah.
It's like almost when you think of building a new feature, the first thing we
should be thinking about ideally is to add in some evals, build a feature out.
It's almost like thinking about your unit tests, right?
Maybe you think about it that way.
It wouldn't make sense to have unit tests in Python if your
application is in JavaScript.
Right.
So you're the type like build, start building your evals right alongside your
feature.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like in the examples before it's like, Oh, the team says we needed to be, have,
we need to have better image search.
I'm going to just hunt down the product manager and tell them to find me 50
examples of things that should be returned.
I set that up, right?
We already have the question image ID set up, but we don't even have a search
engine yet, but then when we build one, we'll go, Oh, it's like 15% accurate.
This is terrible.
We really have to invest a lot more effort into building this out.
Yeah.
I can go next.
So I think I've already mentioned like what I've been working on.
So we are mostly working on like customer feedback analytics and building a chat
application or a system on top of it.
It's already live in production, but we still have it in beta.
We haven't recorded and said, it's ready for production use cases.
Because we feel like it does mess up a lot.
Sometimes like there are corner cases, which you don't do a good job on.
And it's a bit slow.
So those things need to be addressed before we can put it in production and
say, okay, this is like ready for use, but everyone has access to it.
So it's like an open beta and everyone is still using.
So we do get feedback from it.
The thing we're struggling with right now is like figuring out what
are the issues that are happening.
So I feel like we are not spending enough time looking at the data in a sense,
especially in terms of like the production use cases that are happening.
And that is something that was quite insightful from yesterday also that
the VITROS team basically spends time and just sits and goes through
the production runs just quite nice.
So I was thinking that we can also adopt something similar.
We could do it async or synchronous, but try to look at the data a lot more
and see what's going on.
Other thing I was curious about is how do you guys think about drift detection?
So period of time, the user pattern change and the questions they are
expecting you to answer will change as well.
So how do we, the system where you're able to capture those kind of
nuances over a period of time?
I mean, I can try to answer a little bit only from my experience from the
e-commerce side of things where, you know, because we had all these different scores,
we would have real-time monitors of sort of the average COSIN distance or the
average re-ranked distance across different query segments.
Right.
And so in the e-commerce sense, we know what the average probability of sale
prediction is based on COSIN distance is across multiple departments.
So we just have like a time series of like, this is men's pants and this is
women's dresses, and this is like everything that's red and this is
everything that's like down or whatever.
And we would have like seasonality trends and we could monitor.
And then what we just had said was, okay, if there are significant jumps in that,
that's one way of thinking about segmentation, thinking about drift, right?
It's like, has the scores, if the model is fixed, has the scores drifted?
Right.
And then with the same work, it's like, okay, again, it's like, okay, are the
average number, is the average image similarity dropping over time?
If that's the case, has inventory changed or are the queries different?
How could we do some segmentation and figure that out and stuff like that?
And would like semantic similarity be enough or could we like think about
like elements as judges or something along those?
That's tough.
Cause I don't think I've built a system yet where we've successfully
identified like a significant piece of drift, right?
Like we, we noticed, we basically only noticed when we add new features and
we can see that like with a new feature, usage of a different time has been
camera a lot cannibalized because like with COSIN distance, really things would
only, you would only detect sort of catastrophic changes in your system.
I think it's like the COSIN distance for open AI, eight to three is like 0.7
and plus or minus 0.2, that's the kind of variance, right?
So I think, I think more importantly, regardless of what score you're using,
it's likely going to be more important to think about what segments are
we slicing up the data, but Dan, I don't know if you have any thoughts.
I feel like you're the expert here on drift.
Yeah.
I mean, I have a few thoughts.
So one is the one I'll give you the least satisfying one last.
That's probably the most important one.
The first thing, which is sort of actionable is to look at shift in the
distribution of how many queries are landing in each of the segments.
And if you see that shifts, then that tells you that there's probably a
change in other underlying factors as well.
To go back to the analogy for classical ML or classical ML in many circumstances,
especially where it takes a long time for the ground truth value to come in.
So you make a prediction and then you don't see whether that was accurate or
inaccurate for some period of time.
We typically look at covariate shift or shift in the distribution, basically
of the X's and actually like that shouldn't matter if you see that the X is
like, we used to have a lot of people who applied for a loan that were low credit
score, but now there's more people with high credit score, like that in and
of itself shouldn't matter.
Really what you should care about is does the Y conditional on the X change?
And we always did some like incredibly hand wavy thing of saying, if we have
covariate shift, then we think that the data generating process for the Y's
has probably shifted too, but there's nothing rigorous about that.
And you could also have the data generating process of the Y's shift,
even with the covariates not shifting.
And so everything that we do is really just proxies for the things we care about
and proxies that aren't that good.
Or we just use our intuition about whether they're good or not.
And I think that we would have found that very dissatisfying.
And the only reason that we thought that monitoring covariate shift was typically
good enough was a lot of cases there actually wasn't that much you could do.
You're not going to take your model out of production.
So my real question is you want to detect data drift to what ends it so
that you can retrain your model more frequently.
If retraining a model or updating, updating your reranker is cheap and easy enough.
You're probably doing that pretty frequently anyway.
And so if you're saying we're going to detect data drift, but we're not sure
what we're going to actionally do about it, then I think say we've got a couple
of proxies in our case, average distance is actually a quite good proxy, but then
shift in what segments we're observing is a kind of crappy proxy, but it's some proxy.
And then say like, we're just going to keep an eye on those, but we can't
do that much about it anyway.
I would view that as good enough.
I guess the only time I look at covariate shift, especially in the startup
sense is just when our, like as a startup, you're just growing very fast.
You're aggressively just trying to figure out who wants to use your product.
And so the covariate shift did we onboard like an interesting cohort that might
tell us to potentially build in a different direction, or are they using
the product in a way that is not in the direction that we care about and we
need to sort of fix that, right?
One of the examples was like, I think, yeah, we, we onboarded a bunch of founders
for free and they were using the tool, but in a very different way than we wanted
sort of the regular, regular folks to use it.
And so we had to say, okay, let's, let's ignore their accounts and distributions
of things because they're not really paying for the product the way that we
want our customers to use the product.
If you're very early stage, then it's not that you have so much growth and you're
just adding new cohorts and after you observe what you've added, you're going
to build more functionality for them.
You're probably very frequently for, if you're very early stage at any given
moment, you actually don't, you have very few returning customers and you instead
have a hypothesis about who you want to support next.
And then even before you have data for them, you're just going to build out
like, here's the thing that, here's the thing that we think we need in order to
even get them to try the platform.
And now, yeah, you kind of sort of look at data drift, but you just actually are
relying on your intuition about drift that hasn't happened yet to proactively
build those boards.
Yeah.
Build what you think they're going to want so that you can test whether
you can get them on board.
Another interesting idea I just thought of was we could also like start
product metrics.
Like we capture things like how many people are copying our responses or how
many people are interacting with their responses.
And then basically the percentage, if that starts to fall off and that could also
suggest like, where is it happening or something is basically not working as it
should be.
That was also something that is not quite an interesting approach towards
building something that can help us monitor this.
Yeah.
Ultimately it's going to just be group by segment, count queries, kind of like
mean, mean and variance, cosine distance.
And then maybe probability of engagement.
Maybe that's a thumbs up.
Maybe that's a copy paste.
I think those are kind of the only three things.
Like again, most of the work is in the segmentation.
I feel like you guys would be experts in that given, given the nature of the
product.
Not yet.
Not yet.
We haven't really spent enough time setting up cohorts yet.
Initial focus was like just getting to a place where the product was working and
everything was like wide checks and just building on top of that.
And then now that the product is at a place that we feel comfortable with it,
and now we are investing more towards how do we scale it over a period of time?
Now, what is our roadmap for the next year or two years?
I sort of just focusing on the, I really think there's a lot of possibilities.
If you start thinking about like, because in the ramp example, we talked about
like transaction embeddings, right?
That does a world where you can sort of start fine tuning feedback embeddings
and then see if kind of like hierarchical clustering will be helpful.
So like I did this stuff in like 2017, 16, 16, 17, where we were embedding both
product images and product feedback.
And sometimes you can find like some reasonable clusters across time that says
like, Oh, it just seems that like everyone's complaining about the buttons on this
jacket, right?
Oh, they mess up the manufacturing.
Like this leather jacket is just like very low quality or has, you get stuck
up a lot.
So we could identify those, those topics.
What we didn't have at that time was the ability to name topics, right?
Because we were just using like LDA and PCA to factor matrices.
I think now there is a possibility where if you discover 400 clusters,
something in some hierarchical way, I'm surprised there's not more literature
on sort of naming topics, naming clusters these days, but
makes sense actually.
So we already do something similar for feedback.
We could apply a similar pipeline for our queries as well.
Therein we cluster them, then try to identify like groupings of clusters.
We get a hierarchy out of that.
Then that should help us segment those into which of these buckets are we
actually serving right now?
And which of these buckets would we invest into actually going forward?
Yeah.
And then what we did was we just took these embedding models, got the embeddings,
and then just train XGBoost to predict some kind of like critique or issues.
Like, Oh, was this a merchandising issue?
Was it a delivery issue?
Was this a product issue, quality fit, all that stuff?
We ended up doing quite well, but it is hard to sort of make embeddings reliable.
Cause then you end up like when you retrain models, do you like, how do you make
sure the embeddings don't drift or how do you like lock in, it just, you were just
kind of trading one problem for another.
Yeah.
So for like embedding issues, what we have tried to do is integrate LLMs and
embeddings as well, like the clusters we create are like reviewed by LLMs so that
the actual output of the cluster is a lot better compared to just relying on
embeddings only because embeddings have a lot of noise, so it doesn't make
sense to rely solely on them.
Yeah.
One thing, one tip, which was really important for us when I was managing
human labellers is it is very, it is a bad idea to ask a human to label a single
cluster because the label becomes incredibly generic.
Right.
So what you have to do is you have to create labeling jobs where you use
humans to tell you what is different across clusters.
Right.
Cause if you had just one cluster, maybe the comment is like, these are shirts.
And then cluster two is also shirts.
Find two similar clusters and you say, tell me what differentiates them.
It might become, oh, these are plain patterns and these are more colorful
patterns and these are small patterns with big patterns.
And so I bet in your prompt engineering, there might be a world where instead of
doing like a single cluster at a time, not to say that that's what you're doing,
but trying to distill out differences between clusters because you're likely
going to get much more high entropy labels.
Faraz, I don't know if you're, you're able to speak right now, but if you have
any thoughts on the question.
I work with Weibo itself.
Yeah.
There's a lot of fun stuff to do with the embedding models.
You can always just run a TSN plot and impress your boss.
We are at the stage of building the probability of success of queries
equation that we are showed, right?
We are trying to build the evals on top of it.
So we have this, as Weibo mentioned, we have the rack pipeline and we have
a lot of components over there.
So we're trying to measure how well each of the component is doing so that we can
iterate on and try to improve each of those components individually.
So most of my work deals with building evals right now.
Have you been convinced by Vtor to make the buttons bigger and
start doing labeling parties?
Yeah.
The buttons bigger is still a product decision.
We can't really work too hard on that, but we do plan on another idea that we
have had is that we can go ahead and add, give the users the option to, instead of
sharing feedback as a text, you can just speak and we'll record that.
That's tough.
And then let's see how the adoption changes and we can transcribe and share
that with you if you want to make any edits or something, and then submit that.
So make the process of actually providing feedback a lot easier and see if people
start leveraging that a bit more.
Right now, the percent of feedback we get is around like 0.1%, 0.2%.
It's like barely anything.
You get like one or two feedback per day.
So not really helpful right now.
Yeah.
I think copyrighting is going to be such a huge impact on your ability to get the
copy to get the feedback well.
Like what is the copyright now?
Oh, we haven't really spent time on that.
Right now the copy is just a thumbs up and thumbs down.
I feel like right next to the answer.
So like similar to how Chad GPD does it.
So we took a lot of inspirations from there and designed it day back, like
eight months back, not like six months back.
It has been the same since we are planning to invest on that a bit more, but we also
don't want to make it very aggressive because then the users might start to
feel like, why is it all in my face all the time?
They want to find a middle ground, which gives us like a bit more feedback as well.
But product also needs to be happy.
Got it.
Got it.
A V test that I feel like, I feel like in five X, the amount of data I'm okay with
making some sacrifices to get that feedback.
Let's see.
Product product decision is also there.
Like we need to get the bio from product team.
Okay.
This is something that you can do.
So that in itself will be a battle.
We'll have to fight, but we'll try to get it done and see what will be the
best trade off we can make there.
We are also rethinking like how the application itself should be designed
because what we have noticed is that our platform lends not as much towards chat
or towards dashboards, so it might be better for our application to like X has
an approach of creating dashboards.
We could also learn from them and basically build us application where
then you can create dashboards using chat.
So that could be another approach of doing it.
They're still like figuring out what is the best solution for our use cases.
Yeah.
I'm curious if there's any kind of like favoriting mechanism or like show more
similar feedback mechanism that could just like get you to get more clicks.
Yes.
That is an actually a feature request that has been there for a while.
And we are, we actually have built it like recently last week only I built it
and we are still figuring out their latency trade off state part.
What we are doing is basically that given a set of reports can ask for more similar
feedback and we'll try to like look at the purpose and get you like more feedback
so that you can leverage that in your research.
Yeah.
Cause that's an example where you can sort of do the same kind of UI tricks as
like the people you may know where maybe if you want to see similar, we show you
10 things, you know, add them, see more things.
You have to like delete them to see more.
It's like there's, there's, yeah, you're going to do that.
You might, you're, you're going to go from two a day to like a thousand a day.
Right?
Yep.
Exactly.
So what we are thinking is that we give them an option to basically get
suggestions and then you can choose which of these suggestions are actually
relevant for you.
So you add those to your collection with the risk get discarded.
And that way, basically the positive and negative both we get feedback on.
These were the positive ones that got accepted and the rest got rejected.
Totally makes sense.
Yeah, I guess, you know, I don't think I don't think I have a question.
I was going to ask about fine tuning, but I think that's maybe too far from
what most people are working on.
So adding to that, actually we had tried fine tuning our components, right?
In the rack pipeline, we started off with fine tuning, synthetic queries,
get some answers to them and then try to find a model, but that didn't really
go well for us.
And then when, when the GPT-4 pricing dropped down, we were like, let's try to
use off the shelf models itself.
And then now we are on the journey.
Like once we have these models and production and we are getting a lot of
user data, we started thinking of using that data and fine tuning models on top
of it in the sense that we can build an evaluator LLM and try to evaluate the
responses that we already have in production, only fine tune on the ones
which are right, which the LLM says they're right and get the model production.
So actually we had a very similar journey to what Zapier Wittor mentioned
yesterday, like when there was GPT-4O, whether we need to swap our models
with GPT-4O or not.
So that was a big question for us as well.
And that's when we realized that building evals for each of those
components is very crucial for us.
Because in this LLM space, every now and then there will be a new model coming up
and there will be always a question of whether we should use that or not.
So yeah, we're taking a step back.
Some of the folks are working on evals, some folks are working on building new
features, so that's the journey right now.
Yeah.
And also I think building the evals and building new features almost is very aligned.
Right.
If you think about how, for example, Hex builds their products, the evals are
actually part of the project and feature requirements.
Right.
So like in the proposal doc, there's kind of like, what is the product for?
Who's the user?
What's the user story?
And as part of that, they have to produce, the PMs have to produce evals and examples
to demonstrate what the actual requirements of the product look like.
And so making that cultural shift also has been very useful for a lot of
the companies I've spoken to.
So I think, yeah, like it was Zapier, like when I was working with them, it
really was just like, oh, we need to make rag better.
It took a long time to really figure out, let's split this out into multiple sub-problems.
And then which sub-problem should we tackle first and how do we prioritize
that kind of work, very, very enlightening.
Yeah.
Like even the thing that Vito mentioned wherein they moved from a normal agent to
a planner, same thing we did, we had like a very normal agent wherein it was just
planning on the fly and figuring out, okay, given these tools, what to do.
A planner, because the agent itself was like very non-deterministic.
Planner still became a little more deterministic in nature.
But now the problem with planner is it doesn't really interact with the user.
It just plans without looking at the users without interacting with them.
So how do we make sure that it is able to ask questions?
Then we get feedback from the user and leverage it for something we are
still trying to figure out.
This makes me ask one question as well.
Then what kind of tools do you think are necessary for a planner to be
actually able to plan properly?
So like the user's queries can be very ambiguous.
They might be missing details.
And how does it basically figure out, okay, this is something that I need more
information on before I go ahead and plan my execution.
That's hard.
Cause I don't even know if I have a full taxonomy of all the
different kinds of failure modes.
It's like, like some of the smaller sub-problems I've been looking at are just
at Zapier, for example, we were just trying to measure how often is the language
model selecting the right columns.
Right.
It's like, is there some kind of like precision recall on not only tables,
but columns and code snippets.
Right.
And then the question is like, okay, again, if it's a failure, like if we can't
answer this question, can we identify whether it is inventory in the sense that
we just don't have the column or is it because of like in a, in Zapier's
exam, I saw examples where just column names are not specific enough.
And so what we lack was just descriptions for those columns.
I don't really have my full theory of like what it means to not know or not have,
sorry, I don't have a like what is under specified, but that is something I'm
trying to work on and see if we can just break it down into like five categories
that we can just evaluate, but I'm still a little bit far, far away from that.
And one thing I was thinking about is that what we could try to do is to give
the, there an option of basically interacting with the user directly as well.
If it feels like that given the plans that I've seen, these are the details I
would need to actually answer a similar question, then let me ask, go ahead and
ask the user or perform a search for this particular thing that I'm missing.
So it could be that you are interacting with the user.
It could be that you're interacting with the data underlying data as well.
And you don't normally get access to because you are not sure what to do here.
I'm not sure whether the planner would be smart enough to pick that or not.
That is something we'll have to experiment on, but would be something
interesting to experiment with and see how that looks out.
Most of what I've seen there has been sort of reasoning about the nodes as
kind of like forms you fill out, right?
And the question is, okay, how many forms are optional versus how many of the,
or how many of those attributes are required?
And if they're required and they're missing, is there any way that
we can fill in those things?
And then if they're optional, does the form processing, is that, is it able
to communicate the fact that, okay, if you, if this attribute was not, if the
attribute is optional, your results could be better if they were present.
Right.
But again, that's kind of my, my like glimpse into sort of figuring out what
the, like the, like the categories of failures are, but is it a missing
mechanism, like analogy?
I'm not really sure Dan, I don't know if you have any thoughts on that, but.
Yeah, I feel like this is an area that we're still trying to figure out.
Yeah.
My goal is I just want to have like a three by three, like chart that says
like it's either this, this, this, this, this, that, but because we, we have
that in like standard data science.
Like there is like a missing mechanism, right?
Is it null at random?
Is that, is there a mechanism that induces the nullness?
Like we have some notions, so we just had to re-derive it for, for this LLM case.
Something to experiment with for us.
That is something we do want to spend some time on.
How do we improve the planning?
Yeah.
I'll keep thinking about this, like missing mechanism stuff.
It hasn't been like the highest priority, but did anyone else have any other
questions? I know we mostly just had like a conversation today, but cool.
All right.
As always, if you have any other questions, feel free to like post in, post in
this, the Slack as constructor and yeah, otherwise you can like DMS for
anything more specific.
Awesome.
Thank you guys for staying up late.
You got it.
Take care.
Thanks a lot.
Bye.
