Just by way of intro, I am the co-founder of Chroma.
We are an open source retrieval system for AI applications.
We help you build things like RAG really, really easily.
I think that this topic about organizing your data for retrieval and really
organizing your data for query routing.
And I'll explain what that means in a little while is often overlooked.
It's not especially sexy, but it is a mistake that I've seen a lot of people
make, and I think small things like this and chunking and other pieces really
add up to a lot of what contributes to retrieval accuracy and, you know, what
you should be thinking about when building applications.
A lot of this stuff just isn't really best practices yet because many are
still coming to grips with how we're supposed to be building applications.
And so my purpose in this presentation is to give you at least a starting point
of things that maybe you didn't know you what to be thinking about when
you're setting up your pipelines.
So I'm going to just jump in, Jason, I'm relying on you to pay attention to the
chat in case there's anything that you want to shout out.
Otherwise I'm just going to dive in.
So, you know, let's, let's talk about organizing your data for query routing,
which is really organizing your data for RAG, right?
There are steps that I wish everybody knew.
I said these in the last presentation.
I'm going to say them again.
You need to look at your data.
You need to look at what exactly is going into your vector database or your
database, you need to actually see what's in there before you do literally anything
else, and that includes organizing your data.
I think I want to enhance that from what I usually say here is you also want
to be looking at your queries.
You should take a look at what your users are actually trying to access in your
data, not just what data you have stored, because often this maybe doesn't align
and you're maybe retrieving things that you don't expect.
Always do these two things first while setting up your pipeline.
This also does pay into sort of how we organize our data.
So it's, it's something that I want to put front and center.
So let's think about what our data for retrieval might actually look like.
What are some of the characteristics that matter for the purposes of organizing it?
So the first thing is, is thinking about our users, right?
Do each of our users have their own data?
So for example, are we building an application where our users can
upload their own documents and they only have access to those documents?
Or are we building, for example, an enterprise application where each team
has maybe a separate document store, or maybe they're sort of ACL and access
control considerations around this.
Does each user or each team or whatever the abstraction that you're using have
access to all of the data or only some of the data or all of the data all of the
time, or all of the data some of the time, this is well worth thinking about, right?
And the other thing to think about here is does this access actually change over time?
And what I mean by that is maybe right now X, Y, and Z users have access to A and B
data sources, but maybe we want to add a user later, maybe we want to remove a user.
Maybe we want to restrict or open up what data a given user has access to.
So we need to think about does that access change over time?
The next thing to think about is besides users is data sources.
So you might be building a fairly simple RAG application where it's, you know, one
sort of corpus of data and all the data kind of looks the same.
Maybe it's all case files for legal professionals.
Maybe it's all scientific papers in a particular domain of biology, right?
Or maybe you're building a more rich application, which is often more powerful.
And you might actually be dealing with, first of all, different kinds of data.
So one example of this is like financial reports, investor relations reports from
a company, economic data, which is all related to the same set of topics, but is
different in form and structure and different in content.
And of course, then you can think about things like multimodality, like are we
going to be doing audio and images as well as text, which is increasingly possible
and increasingly more powerful as the LLMs themselves get more powerful.
And then the immediate next question, of course, is does each user have access
to data from every source, right?
Now you have that intersection of what are the users doing and what are
the data sources doing?
And the third thing to think about is like, how often is the data really updated?
Sometimes we have really real-time data sources that we want the LLMs to process.
For example, you know, we're getting stuff out of news from a Bloomberg terminal,
right?
Versus, oh, we might have uploaded a math textbook and you know, the math hasn't
changed in a hundred or sometimes a thousand years, so we probably don't need
another version of it anytime soon.
So those are considerations around data sources.
And finally, there's also things to think about in terms of queries.
And this first bit is a little abstract, so I'll try to explain it in a bit more
depth.
When I say what scope do queries have, it's oftentimes when we send a query to
our data, we don't necessarily want to address all of the data available, even
if it's for one user or one data source, because maybe we want to restrict to a
particular date range, right?
Or maybe we want to make sure that we're only searching among records that have
particular keywords included in their text.
And you can imagine other types of data or metadata that we would like to filter
our queries by.
And the question is, first of all, what kinds of filters are there?
And second of all, how often do those filters apply?
Right.
And the other thing to think about again is how do queries intersect users?
So our queries uniform between users.
In other words, are all of our users, even if they have access to the same data from
the same data source, attempting to get the same results from it, are they
attempting to sort of query that data in the same way?
Right.
These are important questions to ask before we start thinking about how we
organize our data.
This is more of a set of questions to ask rather than a set of solutions for you.
Now in this presentation, I'm going to sort of suggest two approaches, but really
what I want to give you here is a set of sort of conceptual building blocks for
when you think about how you're going to organize your data, what you need to be
thinking about.
So let's start with everybody's favorite and how everybody actually does this by
default.
So this is the sort of big pile of records approach.
And here's what you do.
You have one giant index for all the data in your entire application.
It's very simple.
It's the default assumption for many vendors and you do things like, oh, if
my queries need to be scoped by user, well, I'm simply going to attach a user
ID to each record and then filter my search by those user IDs.
Right.
This is a default assumption for many vendors.
The reason it's the default assumption for many vendors is most of the products
in this space were originally built as large scale search indexes serving
massively parallel queries against a single large data set.
But that's very different to the use case that we're building for, which is an
application, which resembles an application database much more than a search index.
That said, this is what most vendors try to push you into doing.
Right.
And I'm sure that you will have experience with one or more of those vendors doing
that to you by now, it's not strictly illegal.
You're probably not going to get arrested for doing this yet.
Now there's a bunch of cons here.
The first is of course, from a purely compliance and security point of view,
your user data is commingled, right?
There is no logical separation between that data, except in terms of the filters
that you apply to make sure that your results are only retrieved for certain IDs.
Now this is kind of sketchy in databases with robust access controls.
This isn't really a problem if you're doing things to do with compliance.
However, most of the vendors who build things in this way are not really thinking
of those metadata keys as something that's used in ACL contexts.
And so they don't necessarily have the same guarantees regarding what data is
actually accessed and when, as databases do when they do something like a user ID
key, that's worth thinking about.
There's also a bunch of performance issues with this approach, which
I'll go into in the next slides.
Now that's not to say that this is always the wrong answer.
Sometimes if you have a single homogeneous data source, which is shared by all users
and all users pretty much want to query that entire set of data all the time.
So for example, if I was to embed, let's say Wikipedia, and I just want to
semantically search Wikipedia and give all my users semantic access to that,
then this one giant search index is fine.
Right?
If I'm sort of indexing every tweet ever, that's probably fine for this, right?
Cause it's just not that tightly scoured.
But those resemble much more like traditional search applications than they
resemble something that you might use an application database for in an AI application.
So again, not always the wrong answer, but you should be much more cautious with this.
You should notice yourself trying to force a more complicated data
organization into this layout and start considering alternatives earlier.
That's my strong advice here.
So let's talk about some of the other cons here.
Now we talked about already the sort of issues around security and compliance.
When you have one index with many users, data is commingled.
A very common pattern, like I mentioned, is you just tagged the records with user
IDs, maybe by putting a metadata key or something else, and then you filter by
that metadata key to retrieve only around records.
Now, besides the commingling issue, this actually hurts recall.
And this is kind of little known because it's slightly technical, but I'll go into
it because I think this is important to understand.
If you apply the more filtering you apply, and there's a term called specificity,
which I'll explain in a sec, you're more likely to miss relevant results.
And specificity or also called selectivity is what fraction of all data in your data,
in your index actually matches a given filter.
Now, the reason that this causes a recall to drop is because of the way that vector
search works under the hood.
The way that you can think of how vector search works under the hood for most
implementations today is you have your vectors, they're stored as a graph data
structure, and you have a compute budget for how many edges of that graph you're
going to traverse.
Now, if you're doing this the more sophisticated way, which is called
pre-filtering, what happens is you walk that graph and some of the nodes that you
encounter on that graph, if they don't match your filter, you don't consider them
and you keep going until you have enough results.
But because you have a finite compute budget, the more edges you have to walk,
the more irrelevant edges there are, the lower the specificity of your filter is.
So to be specific about this, imagine you have a database with 10 users and the
amount of data between them is fairly uniform, then every time you filter down
to one user, your specificity is only 10% of all the data.
And so already one in 10 nodes that you encounter during that search even has the
chance of being relevant to a particular search.
So this is before we even compute relevancy, this is just because we're
filtering those out during the pre-filtering step.
So in order to get the same recall guarantees, you need 10 times the compute
budget, and this only gets worse than more users that you have.
Now that's a very crude approximation, but I want you to think about this.
I want you to understand that applying filters in this way creates problems for
recall and the more users you have, the worse that problem gets, right?
And this applies to filtering in general, but this is the most common mistake that
I see when people organize their data in terms of a single index for everybody.
This gets even worse with post-filtering.
Post-filtering is a different approach to this where instead of walking the
graph and deciding whether a given node matches, you just grab way more
results than you usually would.
So say you want 10 results, you grab a thousand results, right?
And then you post filter that list for reasons of frankly math, post-filtering
in this way actually reduces your recall even further.
So if you have a vendor that's using a post-filtering implementation, it's
really, really bad to try to organize your data into this big bowl where
everything is combined and then filtered by user keys.
So that's one issue.
It's overlooked.
It's somewhat technically sophisticated, but it is important and it does have a
significant impact on the results quality.
And of course, recall is the number one thing that you want to care about
because if you're building an AI application, the models are getting
better at filtering out distractors, but they cannot process information
that's not available to them.
So they need all the relevant information, right?
And so if your recall is going down, it means they're not getting all
the relevant information they need to process the query.
So your application performance goes down.
And as we all know, this could be pretty difficult to debug too.
Okay.
So what about the, what's wrong with, for example, storing multiple
data sources in one index, right?
Like everything's text after all.
Yeah.
Well, there's a couple of problems.
The first is even though everything is text, you have different types
of data that get commingled.
Now there's different types of data may come from different domains or they
may have different representations.
You can imagine, for example, storing code and documentation for that code
in the same index under the same embedding model, or you can imagine
things like SEC reports versus just investor relations versus marketing
stuff all stored in the same index.
No, nominally they're all text.
Right.
But the fact is if you store all of these in a single index, you need to
store them all with a single embedding model.
And what that means is you're pushed towards using a general embedding
model, which won't necessarily give you great performance for your specific
application, even if it has good performance in the general case, right.
And this will sort of cut you off from the ability to being able to fine tune
on a per domain basis or even a per structure sort of basis here.
And certainly you won't be able to fine tune per user, which by the way, is an
overlooked technique and I think is quite powerful and I think it is covered
in this series of talks by somebody else.
Another way to see why this is a problem is if we start thinking about metadata
that we might want to attach, different data sources are likely to have different
properties, which means we want them to have different structures of metadata.
And if we're relying on that metadata to be in a particular structure, just like
in a relational database, we're sort of, if you like, try to keep everything
in normalized tables, the number of columns tends to grow.
This is the same issue here.
If we keep sort of tagging every record with its own type of metadata, everything
turns into a big mess as we keep adding data sources, it becomes very difficult
to manage and really understand what the schema is there.
Another thing to think about is like, okay, like we're commuting all these
data sources, but given that our queries will vary and that different people may
use the data in different ways, is every query actually relevant to every data source?
If it's not, then what you're going to get is irrelevant results from
irrelevant data sources for some queries, pushing out relevant results from
relevant data sources, and you have no real way of separating that except by
using filtering, and we've talked about the problem with filtering before, besides
which you still have to establish which filters to use for which queries,
which is its own trick.
And finally, you know, you still have this question like, okay, well, does
every user have access to every data source?
And that comes back to access control, right?
And implementing access control on top of, let's say, a vanilla vector
database is not always simple and does come with its own compliance issues.
If you're going through something like SOC 2, you need procedures for
this stuff and can be non-trivial.
So those are some problems.
So what can we do and what should we do instead?
Now I'm not prescriptive, but I do want to give you the maximalist case, right?
I want to take this maximally sort of commingled case and talk about the
maximally, let's say denormalized case.
For those of you familiar with sort of the database jargon, this is
the approach here, we're going to do this fully denormalized.
Now, what I mean by that is you do one index per user per data source, right?
And this sounds complicated and expensive, but it doesn't have to be.
So there's a lot of pros to this.
It basically overcomes all the problems that I discussed so far.
You get full separation of user data.
Everyone's data is in their own index.
There's no possibility of it getting critical.
You get improved recall because you're no longer filtering indexes.
You're just sending queries to the right index.
You get independent indexing, which means that not only can your data
sources be updated individually, which means you're not updating one giant
index with a right for a very frequent data source, for example, writing to an
already giant index is going to be much more expensive than a very frequent data
source writing to a smaller index.
It's all of its own.
And you get more efficient reads because you don't have to read from
the giant index every time.
And that also is going to drive recall up for you because the same sort of
graph traversal budget that I talked before is going to do more work for you
because there's just fewer nodes to visit.
Now the cons also fairly obvious.
It's more complicated.
You have to keep track of more stuff.
It's not that much more complicated.
I get into how to make this work for you.
You then have the question of like, okay, well, great.
You've got all these different indexes.
How do I know where to route my queries and how are we going to deal with that?
And I'll talk about them in a minute.
How do we handle, you know, duplicate ads, updates, deletes, because, you know,
I've said one user per data source, we have to feed the right to the right data
source to the right user, right.
Each time, which is kind of neat because it does guarantee that a user won't ever
have access to data that they're not supposed to, because it's not in their
index, so let's keep going.
So that's a complication.
It's not trivial.
It's not necessarily that difficult.
Now, the other thing is this means that your vendor has to give you a solution
that makes creating, modifying and deleting indexes cheaply.
Fortunately, we built Chroma from the ground up to do exactly that.
Collections are very transparent data structures for us.
You should use Chroma if you're going to do this stuff.
That is the only plug that I'm going to give in this entire talk, but strongly,
strongly recommended because we saw this coming very, very early because we
understood people will be building applications and not search indexes.
So if you want something that makes this cheap and easy, I do recommend us.
So let's talk about solving at least one of these problems.
Like I mentioned, like how do we route queries?
Some of this is pretty trivial.
Some of this is going to work exactly as you expect mapping user IDs to index
IDs is trivial, just keep a table somewhere, right?
You can write it out.
You can make it as simple as literally just your user ID is also in the
metadata of that collection and you retrieve the index by that metadata ID.
Writing to data sources is similarly straightforward.
Just keep a relational table, right?
Of which data source goes to which user, which is kind of neat because it also
takes the access control question out of the vector database itself, which may
not have those robust controls that we want for compliance.
So how do we route queries now to different data sources?
There's a few options.
The first and simplest one is, you know, what I think it was like full multiplexing.
What I mean by that is you take the query and you just send it to all
the applicable data sources, right?
We're just going to find everything relevant.
The question is then how many results do we return?
Because previously, for example, in the one big index case would say, okay, well
we want the top 10 results, right?
But now let's say we have five data sources.
If we ask for the top 10 from each data source, well, we get 50 results.
The simple solution may be that given that the context windows have gotten longer
because the per token cost has gotten lower, we literally just send all these
results to the model and let the model figure it out.
That's not off the table.
You can do that.
There is the question of how to filter and rank these.
I think that it's worth experimenting with re-ranking models exactly in this
context because the re-ranking model is kind of a global filter or a global
classifier over any type of result with its relevance to the specific query.
Right.
And that can help you sort of get say your 50 results from your five different
data sources and then rank them and then take the top 10 from there.
I think this is actually fairly effective.
It's worth experimenting with.
I think re-ranking models are actually underrated mostly because people try to
use them in the one giant index context in order to rank 10 results out of the
thousand they get from one giant index, instead of using them as an augmentation
to query routing, like we're discussing here.
Now, sort of the more sophisticated version of this is LLM routing.
And the short version of how that works is you tell the model which sources
are available with the contacts.
So you say, okay, these are all SCC filings and here's what one of them looks like.
And this one here is like all marketing material from this company.
And here's what one looks like.
And then have it literally say, okay, well, this query should probably go to this
and this index, but not this other one.
This also works great with filtering because it means that the LLM can actually
extract things like keywords that might be relevant.
How does it work in practice?
You can probably store this in the metadata or you can store it as a cached
prompt for the sort of query pre-processing step in your LLM, and you
have it determined which indexes might have relevant data for a given query.
So you just rely on it to reason a little bit.
What's cool here is again, you don't really need to use a full fat latest
and greatest reasoning model.
I think you can get away with most of the mini or the fast ones to do something
like this, because the things the models are really good at, they're good at
classification tasks, they're good at translation tasks, they're good at
summarization tasks, and this, like which index should I route this query to?
This is a classification task that they're really good at.
So you can rely on that.
And then you route the queries accordingly.
There's also a bunch of potential benefits here, which I don't really go into,
but one really effective technique for improving recall is at write time, include
additional context about the chunk or the text that you're writing along with
the text itself.
Now a way to get that context is because it's already in the pre-computed system.
It's already in the cached system prompt.
And so all you have to do is just say, Hey, can you write a little bit more
context about like what this data is about into the data before you start in
the retrieval system?
As with any time we use an LLM as a judge, and this is an example of using LLM as
judge, you need to calibrate this.
And what I mean by that is go back and look at your data, go and see what the
LLM is actually really doing and see that you as a human would, what would you do
as a human?
And you can use that calibration step to give additional feedback and to sort of
improve on the system prompt that you give the classification model here to do
better at these things.
Calibration is very important.
Anytime you use LLM as a judge, I can give an entire presentation just on that topic,
but I won't.
That's basically it.
This is again, intended to give you some conceptual building blocks.
So I've looked at fairly open ended.
I'm going to open it up to Q and A here and I'm going to rely on Jason to
tell me what's in the chat.
Sounds good.
This is also a very good talk.
I feel like every time you're given one of these lectures, I wish you just sort of
ran your podcast a little bit more and just taught a little bit more.
Cause I think you're one of the few people I talked to that have very clear
exposition on what's really going on these days.
Look, you bash your head against enough sharp edges.
Eventually you sort of, you learn where they are.
Exactly.
Exactly.
If you're clever.
I think this is the top voted question.
I think this is going to be, hopefully we can spend a little bit more time on this
actually, but it's quite eye opening.
Most people are not understanding why filtering is a problematic way of retrieving
data.
Couldn't databases be able to return all records that match a filter?
I think this speaks to the idea of like exhaustive search, like
agricultural small worlds.
Can you speak a little bit about this?
Cause I think this is a super important question.
Yeah, I think that's right.
I did kind of skip past the nature of semantic vector search here a little bit.
So let me go back to that slide.
So in the general case, yes, it's true that a database should return all records
that match a particular filter.
Now in order to make vector search efficient, we cannot use exact matching,
right?
Beyond a certain scale, it becomes infeasible to store and perform a nearest
neighbor computation against all of those vectors, because it's, as you can imagine,
it's an N squared operation.
You would have to take your query vector and then perform a thought product with
every other vector that's already stored in memory.
That's prohibited from a memory perspective.
It's prohibited from a compute perspective, right?
So instead beyond a certain scale, we no longer do brute force matching.
We do approximate nearest neighbor search.
Approximate nearest neighbor search requires us to store our data in an efficient graph.
Now graph data structures, for those of you familiar with CS, typically have
logarithmic lookup times in the number of data points that are in your graph.
That means that what we can do now by using a graph data structure, as I
mentioned, is trade sort of efficiency and performance for recall.
So in principle, yes, you could, for example, give yourself unbounded time to
return a result and it would just traverse the entire graph until it had
found all of the most relevant results.
But that would require us to sort of also have unbounded memory.
So we don't do that.
We use approximate nearest neighbor search.
Approximate nearest neighbor search has the word approximate in the name.
And specifically approximation is we trade recall for speed, right?
And we trade recall for space.
Now, because of that trade, we have to decide how we're going to
handle filtering in that setting.
And there's two ways to handle filtering.
Like I mentioned there is what's called pre-filtering.
Pre-filtering means we are going to go through the graph step by step.
And we're going to have some starting point in the graph and we're going to
traverse it and we're going to ask each node, do you match the filter?
And if it doesn't match the filter, we keep going.
And we're only going to keep going up until a certain budget of
edges that we've traversed, right?
And if our filter selectivity is low, it means most of the nodes that we encounter,
which means most of the edges that we traverse don't actually contribute a
relevant result to our search.
One way to think about it is we're much more greedy in what we're going to accept
in that graph, which means that the further away relevant results from our
starting point might not get found overall.
Course filtering makes it even worse because you kind of have to rely on
whatever is in the nearest thousand nodes, regardless of whether it's relevant
to the filter or not, or 10,000 or however many it is.
And so the lower your selectivity is, the more irrelevant stuff that there is.
And it's actually even worse for reasons that I can write a mathematical
proof about, but intuitively you can imagine, imagine you have like red
and green points in space, right?
And you're looking for green points.
And if there's like roughly 50, 50 red, green points, and you draw a circle
around them, you're going to have a good chance of getting the number of green
points that you're looking for, which are nearby.
However, if there are 10 times more red points than green points and you're
selecting, let's say a hundred points, you're only going to get one tenth of all
the ones that you're looking for.
That's kind of a geometric intuition that I have about it.
So it is the approximate nearest neighbor property of semantic vector
search that causes this issue with filtering in that approximate
nearest neighbor setting.
This is fine for brute force, by the way, if you only have like a thousand
entries in practice, this is going to get brute force for you.
You're going to get exact matching with perfect filtering every time.
You don't have to worry about that.
This is for indexes, anything above like 10,000.
This is when this starts to kick in and around a million, you
will really see this happening.
Yeah, this is definitely something I think many people don't really even
recognize around some things like a PG vector, I believe.
PG vector sacrifices a lot of recall.
So you don't actually get exhaustive search, which is an issue if you're
doing like financial resource or legal documents and you don't really understand
what the approximation is doing.
Of course, this is another way in which organizing your data in this
denormalized way that I described actually helps you quite a bit.
It means that your recall will go off for free, even though you
have the same amount of data.
You like, you don't really have to do anything.
You just organize your data differently.
You'll get better results.
I think this is a perfect segue into the second question, which is, can
you share an example of implementing dynamic metadata filtering where a user's
question is categorized into a collection and using the filter?
So I'll say two things.
This will be the topic for sessions five and six.
So we'll have a bunch of code examples there, but a simple example that we've
seen in financial research is just first being able to filter documents
based on the stock ticker, right?
If you want to ask questions about Uber, it's much more useful to either filter
against the Uber ticker, maybe that's metadata, or just having an index
that's specifically for Uber.
What that also means is there's other kinds of questions we won't be able
to answer because you want to search across all data, but Anton, I'll
let you take it from there.
No, I think that's actually a really good example.
Can you share other examples of implementing a dynamic metadata filter
where a user's question is categorized into a collection and then uses the filter?
Yeah, absolutely.
Someone in the chat asked for a legal example.
I think that's also.
I'm thinking of a good legal one actually, right?
So in the legal domain, you may have case law overall, right?
And determinations, and then you might be interested in, for example, a particular
decision by a particular court, right?
Or all of the decisions that a particular court has made about a particular issue.
And so what you can do is you can say, okay, in your set of data sources, you
have court decisions is one thing, briefs is another thing, and then like
evidence or whatever the documents are on the third thing.
And then your query, you say, okay, I need to understand like what such
and such superior court determined about such and such case and cases like it.
And so your dynamic routing say, okay, well, this is really
just about court determinations.
I'm going to just route the query to that index instead of pulling in everything
that might be relevant at all, because me as the practitioner really only cares
about what the course decided, right?
Not about all the other evidence that might be around the same issue.
So that's just one example.
It's not a great example.
I'm not a lawyer.
But it is the sort of thing that comes up.
Yeah.
Another example that I've looked at in the sort of accounting context is when we
have different invoices coming from different States or from different
countries, we only want to retrieve the tax law and the exemptions of that region.
And so, you know, if someone's coming in from Brazil, we want to figure out
all the tax law for Brazil.
If somebody is coming in from Wyoming or New York, we want to be able to
atomize that in a certain way and see if we can find any exemptions.
Let's do one more question from the Slido and then we can go back and
forth from the live questions.
This one's also pretty particular to me, but you mentioned a lot about the routing.
I don't know if, how much have you seen around the model context protocol and
how that might be a way of defining model routing?
Yeah, it's actually kind of cool.
I've been working with MCP myself lately, building a little tool for myself.
I think MCP is a great idea.
I think being able to discover data sources, having the model automatically
discover data sources is very useful because it makes it fully modular, right?
You don't have to program this in anywhere.
You can just create or remove data sources and the model will be able to discover it.
And I think it's a great idea.
Unfortunately, I haven't been that impressed with their actual implementation
of MCP.
It's not as well supported as I would like.
I've opened a lot of bugs against it, a lot of issues, but as an idea, I
think it's a really good one.
I think that you can expose data sources with their context inside the MCP and
have the model treat them as a tool, right?
And then barrier routing just becomes tool coding.
Which is really the same thing under the hood.
So it depends on how much you want to wrestle with actual MCP, but
conceptually it's very similar.
Sounds good.
Navneet, do you want to ask you a question?
Yep.
It's related to the dynamic routing itself.
So I knew you gave an example of accounting and legal rights.
So do you do that as a part of pre-filtering or let the LLM as in judge,
let's just say I get an question related to like as which code does this
case belongs to, right?
So do you provide some enums like where LLM is like decide to categorize this
question into like only these four categories and then use that as a filter?
How would you or let you as in judge or somebody human in the loop to
decide those dynamic filtering?
Yeah.
I mean, the, again, the easy way to do that is just like tell the LLM what
data is available and then give it examples in context of how to make that
decision and then basically watch what it does calibrate it, right?
Like give it some examples, make it work.
Yes.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Yeah.
I think there, a lot of it will just be also understanding, like if we look at
our queries, we're going to be motivated to either add metadata filterings or
adding individual indices, right?
Because again, if you, if you build the, if you go down the route of having
individual collections, then you can't query across many collections in an
efficient way, whereas if you have many collections or single collection, it
really depends on what your customers are trying to, trying to get.
I don't know if I can pronounce your name.
Songer.
Okay.
Perfect.
Cool.
So I just want to ask a question with back to the legal example that you were
sharing because I'm working on such a problem and let's say you have document
types, cases, rulings, publications, and so on, but there is one type which is
dominant, like 95% of it is dead and it's like millions of vectors.
So then the path that we decided to go down on is to try to extract as much
metadata from those as possible.
As large a metadata set as possible.
So, and then we are using elastic search for this and then we do the
filtering and afterwards do the vector search, but what I'm hearing here
is like, yeah, very interesting.
So I'm curious about your thoughts.
Now, does this mean that we should rethink the way that we structure this,
like millions and millions of vectors and maybe some of the metadata is now
should become indexes or how should we.
About it.
That is exactly what I would suggest.
And I would take a look at the query patterns that you're actually
receiving in practice to see, like if, if every query is being filtered on a
particular metadata key, then you should probably just denormalize that key.
You should probably just make separate indexes for every value of that
particular key so that you can route the query to that key, right?
Elastic searches is particularly not great when you're filtering vectors
for a variety of technical reasons to do with their implementation of vector search.
Got it.
But, and what do you do when it's a combination of multiple metadata?
Like in one user query, you could have the author of a publication and also
the institution, for example, behind the publication, you cannot avoid, it feels
like you cannot avoid having metadata in some sense.
Yeah.
So I'm not suggesting that you should avoid it completely.
All I'm saying is that you ought to be aware of it, right?
This is, this is a, you should be making this as a conscious choice
instead of landing on, okay, let's just put everything in metadata and filtering
by default, you should understand that this is a trade-off, right?
And then figure out what the appropriate trade-off actually is.
Yeah.
Let me add to come other examples too, at least in the construction context
where we had first built a simple application that had a single index.
And that was using embeddings, embedding search.
And when we looked at the queries, we realized two things.
The first thing was I think about 20% of the queries were on a specific RFC code.
And so these expert users basically would just ask what's the due date
for RFC 1, 2, 7, 4, right?
So we, then we went and decided to build a specific RFC index where that was going
to be, you know, just using full-text search, we would be able to retrieve the index
and then retrieve the document from that.
And so that's one example of just having, you know, our segmentation
discover one new capability.
And then it turns out one of the other things people did was they just
understood where many of the people who are querying these documents were the
ones who created them and they generally knew what the title of those files were.
And so again, people would be very, very, very capable of just sort of verbatim
reproducing the title of a document they had cared about, but we didn't have a way
of being able to retrieve that.
So then we built not only an RFC index, but a full-text search over the title.
And those just became different tools.
There was a query RFC, query by RFC code, query by title, and then general embedding
search.
And by doing that, we were able to dramatically improve recall for about
like 30, 40% of our questions.
But this is kind of discovered through the segmentation and data analysis process.
Yeah.
Thanks.
So my question is basically what are the challenges on the way of automating some
of this in the DB?
Cause I'm thinking if single index is less efficient than this per user
indices and so on, can't it be done by the DB?
Right?
Yeah.
So I actually completely agree with you.
I think that this is something in the longterm that the database should be
doing for you.
You as the implementer or the user shouldn't really think about this too much.
Right?
But I'll point out that even with relational SQL databases, we still have to
think about the performance of denormalized tables versus normalized tables
and things like private keys and indexes.
In the ideal case, all of this would be automatic and hopefully it will be in the
future or the time being we do have to manage this ourselves, especially as we
establish the best practices and as the type of applications that we're building
involved, right?
This space is, is moving pretty quickly.
And something that I've said, and Jason's heard me say this about a million times.
The speed limit right now really isn't the model capabilities.
The speed limit is our ability to sort of experiment and try different stuff.
Right.
But because of that, locking us into any particular paradigm at this point is
likely to slow us down because we just don't know what we don't know.
So for now I can make recommendations about here's how you should organize
things, but deciding what to build into the database itself, what to build in
the product itself will shake itself out over the next period of time as we figure
out what we want to build actually is.
I've seen some examples where, you know, there's maybe like full tech search
supported within a body database, but that's kind of as general as it ought to be right now.
I think we as a consumer still need to do a lot of the thinking upfront rather
than leaving it all to the full tech search.
David, did you have a question?
Oh, I did.
Yeah, thanks.
Yeah.
I was trying to figure out how to raise my hand.
So we're talking a lot about retrieving out of the vector database, but I feel
like it's a pretty big problem to manage ACLs, get the dating in.
So can you talk about what frameworks you've had some experience with?
Cause it seems like a really hard problem.
Like how do we manage SharePoint and.
It is a hard problem.
Yeah.
It's ultimately a hard problem.
The solution so far that has worked best is to delegate.
So delegate the ACL outside of the vector database itself for now.
And then basically as part of the call to the vector DB have the sort of ACL
filter already ready, right?
But delegate this to just for now, like a more robust technology.
So the ACL filter would be part of the metadata.
Like if we were to do this in Chrome, would I stuff the ACL as
a attribute of the metadata?
Well, if you had a collection per user, a lot of that probably just goes away.
Right?
Right.
You just literally know, okay, like these are the users' collections
that I'm going to query.
So I don't realize that's it.
So I just have to query to the right place.
I think that was a really interesting idea, but in the cases where you might
have hundreds of thousands of users, do you feel like, what's your opinion on
the scalability of that approach for very large user data sets?
So in our case specifically, we have made scaling the number of indexes that
you have even to the hundreds of thousands of users case, not a problem.
It's like, it is not any additional load for the architecture that we have.
The real thing to ask here is about redundancy.
So what do you do when 50% of your a hundred thousand users have access to a
given piece of data and it's a different 50% for every data point?
That's like the worst case adversarial scenario, right?
You have to at least duplicate every single piece of data that you write.
I don't have a good solution for that.
I think the correct solution for this is to have like real ACL built in.
Right.
But I don't like what the right shape of that should be.
It's unclear right now.
One obvious way to do it is to sort of, rather than have, let's say physical
indexes, is to construct logical indexes over the data points.
So what I mean by that is just instead of having actual vector representation
in each index, you just express the index as a logical graph.
So each user gets their own logical graph.
Basically that's one solution to it.
We've looked at it.
We haven't implemented it yet.
It's a question of demand.
And this is an efficiency optimization that I think we're sort of as an
industry or as a field, we're a little far away from needing that particular
optimization today, so we haven't really put effort into implementing it, but I
can see it on the horizon, right?
And there are ways around it.
If like someone needed me to build a very high performance index today that needed
to have this feature, absolutely, because for example, milliseconds count, that's
where I would build virtual graphs over data for each user.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's great feedback.
Thank you.
And I would do it in a rest.
Cool.
If there's no live questions, we can jump back to some offline questions.
We got maybe 10 minutes left.
How does that sound?
First for me.
So I think, oh, Martin, let's go to you actually.
Albert, I saw Martin first.
Go ahead.
Sounds good.
Thanks for the talk.
I'm just trying to understand why again, like I heard the initial answer as to
why pre-filtering didn't really work.
My thinking right now is like, so when you create the, like the nearest neighbor
index with all the documents initially, and then once you remove a big chunk of
documents, that index basically gets messed up, right?
Is that why it messes things up or am I?
Yeah.
So this can, again, depending on the implementation, yes, that can mess
things up in the long run.
You're exactly right.
Because what happens in certain implementations is the nodes are actually only
soft deleted.
So if you have a lot of updates going into the same index where like, let's say
only 10% of the original documents are still there at any given time, you have
this exact same selectivity problem.
Now the solution to that, of course, is to not soft delete.
Most implementation, graph-based implementations allow you to in place
update, which is much better for the selectivity problem, but you correctly
identified this as an issue.
Yes.
Gotcha.
Wow.
That really helps.
Thank you.
Of course.
There's a lot.
So what's interesting here is, and I think we're still coming to grips with this
because again, we've only really been around, I mean, when I say we, I mean, AI
application development has only been around for about 24 months and a lot of
what we do in retrieval still has this conceptual overhang from when these were
primarily search technologies, right?
And so in a search index, it's not likely that you only have 10% of your original
data there because if you're thinking about something like Pinterest, which is
one of the original use cases for semantic vector search, you're just adding,
you're very rarely removing, right?
And so removals are only in that setting going to be a tiny, vanishingly small
fraction of the entire graph.
Whereas if we're building an application, the whole point of an application
database is that you have an accurate up-to-date representation of the
current world, world's always changing.
So these concepts that were fine and safe in search index land, no longer
apply in retrieval land.
And we have to kind of work out what to do differently, which means that like,
we have to sort of judiciously adopt or discard what works in search and
what works in retrieval.
I think that actually segues pretty well into a follow-up question, which is, how
do you manage these multiple indices when data changes?
Do you have any like preferred tools you want to think about?
I think, you know, I've had customers where data comes in, the large text
blobs get written to the dynamo and then some data gets put into a pine cone and
then that's kind of charging, costing them like a thousand dollars a day.
And then some of the data goes to elastic search.
See your issue, you should use Chroma instead, because we do all of that in
one place.
And then how do you think about these like updates and stuff like that?
I think also one of the issues people run into now is maybe new documents come
in that look like the old documents with small updates.
Yes.
How do you think about this like time component as well?
Yeah, I think again, if it is explicitly an update to a particular document, the
answer is, okay, like keep track of that document's ID and send an update call
with the document ID, right?
That's relatively cheap.
It's fine.
It's safe.
Everything is in place.
The graph still works well.
Where this is a problem is if you add a document that is very, very similar to
an existing document, right?
And I think ultimately the solution here has to be something like an automatic
filtering or automatic sort of cleanup or summarization of data, which is something
that needs to be built into the database itself.
But for now, you basically have to keep track of this stuff for yourself, right?
Now, when you have like multiple solutions for this stuff, when you have like pine
cone for vectors and you have DynamoDB for documents, we specifically built
Chroma so that you don't have to do that.
And Jason, you remember the meme that I sent you on this topic, which I
think is appropriate here, but like my answer here is just don't, right?
We built this for you so that you have document storage, metadata filtering,
keyword search, everything all in one place, vectors in one place,
embeddings go to one place.
If you absolutely must use separate technologies for each of these things,
you need to think about a layer of indirection in your application that is
probably managed by yet another database technology, right?
Or some configuration somewhere that you have to manage.
I recommend if you're going to manage it as configuration, you do
configuration as code, there's no great solutions, but there are solutions at work.
Or use the thing where everything is built in.
All right.
This is the last question.
This is almost a promo for next week's session.
So next week's guest lecture is actually from Glean and they're going to be
talking about how they fine tune like customer specific embedding models.
And you mentioned general embedding models.
And I'm just curious, cause I'm a proponent of fine tuning, but I'm
curious, what have you seen and what are your thoughts on fine tuning,
rerankers, fine tuning, embeddings, and having like index specific models?
It's cheap and you should do it.
That's, that's my perspective.
It's very, very cheap.
People hear fine tuning and they get scared, right?
Because now you're in big brain AI PhD land, sort of reality is the hardest
part of fine tuning is creating a dataset and then benchmarking the
results of your fine tune.
Chroma is releasing an automatic benchmarking tool very, very soon,
which will just work with your data.
You don't have to do very much at all.
But if you have a per user index, it now becomes possible for you to fine
tune or do something like a linear embedding adapter, which again, I
guess you'll cover next week very, very cheaply.
And suddenly each of your users individually will be getting better
results, your application just work better automatically for everybody.
It's just a question of establishing that pipeline much easier to establish
that pipeline when you have these separate indexes.
I'm a big proponent.
You should do it.
That's a good call out that this is actually a feature of your user specific
indices, but I've always seen it from the context of, okay, maybe legal
documents will look different than financial documents, but yeah, it is
the case that if you just have feedback from individual user index queries,
then you can fine tune adapters for each one.
Look, the example that I love to use here is imagine that I have an
engineering firm and that engineering firm has a parts catalog and I've
semantically stored that parts catalog, right?
The people who are creating the products have a different use for the data in
that parts catalog to what the salespeople have, right?
So it's the same data, but two groups of users are accessing it completely
differently, which suggests that they want to like, you can fine tune for
these two different groups of users.
And if you use something like embedding adapters, you don't even
need to reinvent anything.
You just apply those embedding adapters at the user level.
So this is really cheap.
It's really easy.
You should do it per user indexes, make it easier.
Yeah.
My, my, my one liner is just, you know, if you're not fine tuning, you're more
like blockbuster than Netflix.
Damn.
That's, that's harsh, but fair.
David asked a question.
Can you share a link to this new Chroma feature?
It sounds like currently in development.
And it sounds like it's per user fine tuning, right?
Yeah.
Like the one sentence.
We're doing generative benchmarking.
So what that allows you, once you've stored a data set in Chroma, we will
give you an interactive UI that will allow you to generate a robust benchmark
that you can then use to determine which embedding models you should use, whether
the user queries that you're getting actually resemble your benchmark in
production, it is the first and most fundamental step after looking at your
data of how to improve your retrieval system.
So the product is coming out soon.
Watch out for the technical report.
That's going to be first because we're going to make sure that this is like one
of those things where it a hundred percent has to work, right?
We can't generate shitty benchmarks for people cause they won't trust us.
So we're taking the time to get this right, but things look very, very
promising and I expect us to release that sometime later this year.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It sounds incredible.
Looking, looking forward to it.
Awesome.
I think we're at time.
I mean, it's always been a blast hearing you present on these topics.
I think you're one of the few experts that are pretty, pretty no bullshit.
So thank you so much, man.
I'll share the notes with everybody, share some links and then link to the
Chroma technical reports when they come out.
Awesome.
I hope everybody got something useful out of this.
If you want many collections, you should use Chroma cause we're built for it.
Take care.
