I'm really excited to bring in a good buddy of mine, a scholar this week.
I think we've known each other for 10 years now.
When we were just sort of starting out our data science machine learning careers.
You've been at like us, you've been sort of like a staff level engineer at like LinkedIn,
a couple of like VP roles now.
And so you've joined me in the independent consulting journey.
And so it's really fun to sort of talk to practitioners because again, like we said
before, you know, if you talk to vendors or they're like founders, sometimes it gets
very salesy. But, you know, all of our conversations are very strategic, tactical.
And, you know, I've always learned a lot from you.
So I'm really excited to learn from you a little bit more and also share you with the
rest of the team.
Awesome, thanks. Yeah, so just to kind of like kick it off, Jason already kind of
introduced me a little bit, but just a quick recap on like who I am and why you
should maybe pay attention to me.
So I've been working in AI for over 10 years, a lot of large companies like Google
and LinkedIn and have worked in health care, particularly building AI based medical
devices for mental health and have operated all the way at the VP level, managing
all of engineering and data science.
A lot of experience in making teams go fast, a lot of experience in obviously
regulated industry and a lot of experience at building large scale.
And, you know, kind of what this nets out to is I've seen a lot of AI projects fail
and I've also seen them transform businesses.
And so just wanted to share, as I've been consulting, some of the common patterns
that I keep seeing over and over again and sort of some things you can do to fix
them, essentially. And at the end, I'll kind of like have a checklist that you can
download that's kind of like all of these anti-patterns that you should like check
for in your own systems.
So, you know, you don't need to take notes, I would say.
So if I were to summarize and so this is kind of like what Jason asked me earlier,
if you were on the call already, but I think if you're going to take away one
thing from this talk, it's the same thing that Jason and Amal and all these people
kind of like continue to blow out and it's look at your data.
You really need to start from your user, understand what they want, work backwards,
and then you need to look at your data at every step.
It's not sufficient to just look at the inputs and outputs when you have a complex
system with multiple steps, because the problems might be somewhere in the middle.
And then once you do that, you'll get ideas and you just need to apply them and adapt
your system. And you basically want to make that whole loop go as fast as possible.
The teams who can make that loop go as fast as possible are the ones who win.
And that is pretty invariable.
So just to kind of like level set all of the examples I'm going to give come from
actual consulting clients I've had.
I haven't approved a lot of this content with these clients, and so I'm not going to
tell you which companies they are in case you know who they are.
But I'll talk about like what the basic use cases are.
So there's five that I'm kind of pulling from.
One is a sort of customer support knowledge base.
There's a medical advice chat bot, financial news summarization and academic research
assistant and e-commerce product comparison.
I'll give a little bit more detail on each of these just so we kind of level set sort
of what is this client's product actually look like.
And that'll help ground the challenges that we talk about in a little bit.
So for the customer support knowledge base, this is a SaaS company and they have a
bunch of guides, some FAQs, release notes, and they basically have a lot of queries
coming in that might typically go to customer support person like how do I reset
an API key, why is my login failing after an update.
And so we have content sources that come from tutorials, from HTML pages, maybe
some troubleshooting articles.
We have PDF manuals that are sometimes shared out by customer success folks.
And like system diagrams from solution engineers.
And then we have like change logs to describe like the system as it changes over time.
And so some of the challenges, you know, multiple formats here, we have like a lot
of templating that includes a lot of like irrelevant information in these documents.
And also these documents are frequently updated.
So the medical advice chat bot, this is something where there's a chat bot for
patients to ask questions about pretty much general health behaviors.
And so really focused on if you have like a chronic condition like diabetes or
something, you know, you might want help understanding like what lifestyle changes
you should do to manage your blood sugar.
Content sources we have here, medical journal PDFs.
Sometimes we have patient leaflets that kind of come in a doc X format.
And then sometimes we have guidelines that are authored by doctors, also usually
like in a doc X format.
Some of the challenges is a sensitive domain.
Sometimes there's complex document layouts.
And also we want to make sure that we have up to date medical info.
Sometimes the guidelines change and you need to make sure you're keeping up with
that when you're giving patients advice.
Financial news summarization.
So basically there's an investment firm and they kind of have this internal tool to
summarize daily market news for industries they care about.
And when I was working with them, they particularly cared about the
semiconductor industry.
They were doing making some moves in place there.
And so it would be asking questions like, you know, very, very broad, like what's the
latest on semiconductor stocks?
And really they just wanted a summary of sort of like what are like the key stocks
that are changing and why might they be changing?
And so the content sources, basically news articles about these companies, research
reports and filings like SEC filings.
And then we had some RSS feeds that were converted to HTML pages.
You know, have the same varied formats.
There's a lot of domain specific jargon that can be hard to manage in a sort of rag
pipeline. And also, this is something that's obviously changing day by day.
So very rapid updates.
Academic research assistant.
This was something that some students were essentially using to help them do
literature review type of work.
And so they would ask pretty broad questions like what prior work exists on deep
reinforcement learning for robotics.
So these were folks that were trying to do literature review largely for machine
learning based problems.
So we have like La Tech generated journal articles, conference slide decks,
theses and dissertations that were published as PDFs.
A lot of complex layouts, tables with experimental results, multi-column text
that starts to become hard to extract were some of the challenges.
And then the last one, e-commerce product.
So this was basically there was an online chat bot where you could ask it to help
you compare products and you could ask specific questions about it.
So like, I want to compare the battery life between this model phone versus that
model phone and it could pull data out of product specs, essentially.
And so the content sources we had were product manuals, spec sheets, and then
customer reviews.
So just combining some of the structured data that we had with some of the
unstructured data and avoiding like a lot of the irrelevant boilerplate stuff were
some of the challenges.
So that's kind of like level setting on the sort of different products that some
of these anti-patterns will come from.
And so to help us understand a little bit about, you know, to have like a schema
under which to put all these anti-patterns, I've kind of broken up the basic rag form
into a few different steps that you might think about.
So the first is data collection and curation.
You want to make sure that like you actually have the right documents to answer the
queries that you're trying to answer.
And this is a very basic thing of if you collect, you know, documents about
international politics and you're trying to answer questions about local politics,
probably not going to be anything relevant there.
And so you really need to make sure you're getting documents from the right place and
curating them effectively.
Extraction and enrichment.
You want to make sure you represent the documents well.
You want to make sure that they have all the metadata that you need.
And sometimes with complex formats like DocX or PDF, that might involve some
extraction step of extracting the relevant information out of it.
Sometimes it might be combining with other data sources that you have.
And next step is indexing and storage.
This is setting up the documents so you can retrieve them easily.
So in here, you might chunk your documents into pieces that can be easily retrieved.
You might set up embeddings.
You might set up other types of indices like inverse text or you might set up like
a BM-25 index, but you want to set up your data so that it's easy to retrieve for the
types of queries you're asking.
Then you have retrieval, which, you know, arguably these next two steps you could put
into one retrieval and re-ranking.
But retrieval, I typically think of that as like, hey, we want to go and grab all the
documents that might be relevant.
And so we're really focused on high recall.
And then re-ranking, we want to like only get the best documents.
So we want to be high precision and filter out anything that's irrelevant from there.
And then the last step is the generation.
Now that you've collected all of the documents that you feel are relevant here, now
you're going to let the LLM do its thing and generate an answer.
All right.
So let's go through some of the things that can happen at the data collection and
curation phase.
First thing is documents with varied encodings or formats.
So something I've seen and I should also pause to say every single anti-pattern in
this presentation, even though I talk about a specific example, I've seen each one
three times or more over like 10 clients.
So, you know, that should tell you that these are all like fairly common things that
come up.
So basically a lot of times I see clients that have documents that basically disappear
and they don't even know what's happening.
And it comes down to like errors with parsing certain encoding formats and they just
silently drop it and don't have robust error handling.
So in the medical chat, advice chat bot product, they had a rag pipeline and they
kind of assumed all documents were UTF-8 and there were a lot that were Latin one.
And they just dropped the documents that didn't fit that.
Anytime they hit an error, they just like skip the document and kept going.
And so they ended up dropping 21% of their corpus, which is a lot.
And so, you know, this is a case where you have a silent failure.
It's the worst kind.
Your index is shrinking.
You don't even know.
Users just start getting bad answers and you lose trust.
So here, you know, at the end of the day, really make sure you understand like what
kinds of formats and codings, et cetera, your documents are in and what you need to
handle when you have to handle document formats that maybe you're not used to
handling, try to use robust parsers for it.
So use off the shelf libraries where you can.
Anytime you have a failure, you really want to be monitoring that so that you at least
know when things are being dropped.
And then you always want to monitor the number of items you have at each stage to
make sure it makes sense.
So, you know, if you were monitoring the number of documents you have, you should
notice that like, Hey, we started with a hundred and now we have like less than 80.
You know, there's a problem somewhere.
Next thing, your relevant document sets.
So this kind of goes to the curation aspect.
The reality is when you have documents in your index that aren't relevant for any
query, your user might ask, that's kind of like a ticking time bomb, just waiting for
it to like get retrieved for some query.
And so really you want to like curate the documents you include in your index so that
it's only the stuff that's relevant for the types of queries you intend to serve.
And so with the financial news summarization, that RAG index kind of contained every
finance article initially.
And so really what they cared about was kind of updates on the industry and not things
like general macroeconomic trends, but they were basically indexing things about general
macroeconomic trends.
And sometimes those would get pulled and then the summaries would be kind of strange
and not helpful.
And so the more irrelevant documents you have, the harder the retrieval is going to be
to get rights.
So if you have documents that are just not useful for anything, just cut them out at
the source.
Sometimes another way this reveals itself is not necessarily even documents that are
not relevant for any query, but you might have categories of queries where one set of
documents is relevant for one type of query and a different set of documents is relevant
for another type.
And so tagging those documents with certain metadata so that you can apply metadata
filtering, definitely a big leverage.
And then lastly, over time, this stuff tends to change.
User behavior changes.
You might want to support more queries.
So make sure you're looking at actual query logs to refine those filters over time.
Extraction and enrichment.
Big problem with people working with PDFs today is information not being extracted
correctly.
And in particular, trying to extract tables is difficult.
And so with this academic research assistant, basically there were tables that needed to
be extracted and put into retrieved in the rag component so that we actually reported
the thing that the user cared about.
But a lot of off the shelf tools for PDF extraction are not very good at table extraction.
And so you have to be very careful about the assets or artifacts that are pulled out of
your documents.
And you have to make sure that those extractions kind of have the data in a reasonable
format.
And so that's another component that you need to monitor.
And so where you can use tools that are specifically built for the types of artifacts
you want to extract out.
So if you really need the tables extracted out, make sure you're focused on finding an
extraction tool that specifically works well with tables.
And then always validate.
Again, this comes back to just looking at your data.
You know, when you're like extracting data out of a document, that's kind of a step that
could be unreliable.
You want to go and look at those chunks that you're extracting out to make sure they make
sense and are kind of meeting the accuracy that you require for your use case.
Next thing is chunking too small.
I often see this, I think largely, you know, there's lots of people who talk about whether
or not rag is dead.
And, you know, I see most people that implement rag start with chunking, not because
chunking is necessarily like required or useful for their case, but because they copy and
pasted some tutorial or they had AI coding assistant generate it and the AI coding
assistant has just read all of the early tutorials that really like chunked things pretty
into pretty tiny segments just because models at the time didn't have longer contexts.
And so you really want to be careful with this because the smaller the chunk is, the less
meaning it's going to have.
And sometimes you end up with chunks that are too small and that kind of just dilutes the
context.
And so, you know, with the e-commerce product that I worked on, basically, they were
initially just like splitting these spec sheets into like really tiny 200 character
snippets.
And so like no chunk actually had all of the information needed.
And so like it really just hallucinated most of the time.
And that originally affected like 13 percent of their queries, which is a lot.
In general, the models actually worked well enough where we didn't even need to chunk
the spec sheets at all.
We just throw it throw it in outright.
And so make sure you're not chunking too small.
You know, use the long context and see how small chunks need to make.
Make sure you're chunking by semantic boundaries.
That makes sense.
And make sure you're keeping context together.
There's also other techniques that I'll talk about a little bit later.
Things like contextual retrieval or late chunking that can help bring some more global
information and context into smaller chunks if you really do need to have the smaller
chunk.
Next one, somewhat related, is keeping bad chunks.
So with that customer support, not only do you need to have the smaller chunk, but you
know, keeping bad chunks.
So with that customer support knowledge base, there were basically support pages that
included like a footer that basically just had like copyright information.
And based on how the chunking worked, basically these were kept around as like a single
chunk, like this weird just copyright thing.
Obviously, it's probably not going to be helpful to answer any user's query.
And on top of that, if you're keeping that around, probably you're also not filtering
duplicates and that copyright is at the bottom of every page.
And so if sporadically, for whatever reason, there's a query that matches the footer
very highly, probably you're going to get a bunch of copies of that footer and it's
going to crowd out the actual relevant things.
And if you're just using naive vector search, especially a lot of times these vectors
are normalized, meaning things that are like low information like this, you know, they
have the same magnitude as any other vector.
And so like whatever similarity process you're running often will return something like
this if there isn't something else that like highly matches.
And so this can cause a lot of noise in your rag.
So generally, make sure you look at your chunks again, look at your data.
I recommend looking at the shortest chunks, like take like the five percent shortest
chunks that you have and manually inspect them to see if there's anything weird.
You can deduplicate identical chunks by computing some form of content hash.
You can do it in an exact way if you want, or you can do it in a more semantic way where
you're just checking semantic similarity is above some threshold.
But, yeah, making sure all of the chunks that you have are good, definitely worthwhile.
Some of the things I've seen in indexing and storage first is naive embedding usage.
So this is kind of like what we'll talk about, like chunking a little bit.
So something I think a lot of people don't appreciate or recognize jumping into rag,
most embeddings are trained for semantic similarity.
So they're really good at like scoring highly with synonyms.
So if you have two sentences that are using different words, but fundamentally mean the
same thing, they're going to have like very, very similar embeddings.
But when you think about like how vector stores are often used, you have these document
chunks and then you have questions that come in.
The form of a question is not generally the same as the form of your document or document
chunks. And so a lot of these techniques that we see in retrieval, including query
expansion, late chunking, contextual retrieval, they're really about trying to make the
query and document chunks look closer.
And that way, when you go and use an embedding lookup, you get more of what you want.
So, you know, definitely, I think the sort of three different approaches you can take
here, query expansion, which is really like, hey, let's find ways to modify the query to
look more like the document that adds latency to your hot path.
And so I think a lot of people tend to not start there.
You can also modify your documents at indexing time with things like late chunking or
contextual retrieval to make those look a little bit more like your queries.
But the other thing you can also do is fine tune your embeddings and that can help.
So definitely like a mix of those three techniques, I would say, like definitely high
leverage. Next thing is no check for index staleness.
And so this matters a lot for those use cases where things are changing a lot.
So basically, we have this query where an investor had asked in the financial news
summarization about the latest semiconductor earnings, but silently the index hadn't
been refreshed in two weeks, meaning it did not have new data.
And we actually got like the previous Q1 data and, you know, it took a while for them
to even recognize what had happened.
And so the reality here is, you know, when you have a use case where you need up to
date information, you need to make sure you're tracking the sort of staleness of that
information to make sure you're getting the information that you expect.
And, you know, how much staleness is appropriate depends on the use case.
You know, this is a use case where we expected to have updates every day.
And so as soon as something goes beyond like 24 hours or something, that's a problem.
In some use cases, you might even add this as a filter in your retrieval where, hey,
if the last updated timestamp of this document is older than a week or something, maybe we
don't even return it. And that way you kind of protect yourself from pulling now stale
information into your pipeline.
But yeah, really, the big thing here is just like making sure you're monitoring like how
stale your index is at any given point.
Moving on to some stuff in retrieval.
First thing is accepting big queries.
So, you know, with this medical advice chatbot, I found that there were a lot of people who
typed in queries like health tips and it's like that's a very vague query.
Don't know what exactly the user wants.
And the reality is like when you accept queries like that, you know, you're forcing the rag
system to kind of just like retrieve anything.
And, you know, health tips is going to match with a lot of things with like roughly the
same sort of like score.
And so like really it's like hard to like actually like answer the user's query and
satisfy like what they're actually looking for.
And so generally you want to like detect low information queries through some method, and
it might just be heuristics like, you know, if it has a lot of stop words, it's a short
length. And then you want to essentially either prompt users for clarification, ask them to
give you more information so that you get a well formed query from them.
Or you might even just route vague queries to some kind of like fallback and say like, you
know, hey, I'm not sure what you mean, you know, check out these FAQs or, you know, in
some use cases, it might make sense to pass them off to a human, but really just, you
know, not taking queries that like you kind of know up front that you're not going to do
well on. Accepting off topic queries is also a common problem.
So, you know, a lot of this is people trying to just break your system.
But with the product comparison, we had a shopper enter the query, write a poem about
unicorns, and they didn't have many filters or cutoffs.
And so it just kind of retrieved some somewhat random product reviews and generated this weird
poem that was like mixing the kitchen appliances it had retrieved.
And that's probably not something you want your product to do, even if we might think it's
a little fun. And so we want to make sure that we're forcing queries to be in the domain.
So similar to the last one of accepting vague queries, you know, we can build something to
help us classify. So building some kind of intent classifier to help you detect off topic
requests, that can be another LLM.
And it often, in my experience, can be a pretty small LLM.
So it doesn't add a whole lot to your latency.
And or another thing is you can instruct your main LLM to kind of have a
multiple type of response where instead of only outputting the answer, it has the choice to
output a reject. So that's kind of like merging that intent classifier into your sort of main
LLM call. And so that kind of pushes it into the generation phase.
But definitely that's something that's helpful.
And the last thing, use relevance thresholds and cutoffs to, you know, not return documents that
are you don't always need to return documents.
Sometimes there's queries that just like, hey, we don't have good documents for this.
And you want to avoid returning things because then that's just going to make the generation phase
go awry because you've included a bunch of not relevant info.
Oops, lack of task breakdown.
Another big thing. So the reality is we're often asking these AI systems to do a lot.
And very often over time, you'll notice that there are patterns of the types of queries users ask.
So, for instance, in this customer support knowledge base, the common query that kept coming up was
what is my billing date? And we basically had this complete rag workflow.
And this is a case where, like, you know, if we know what the user's intent is there, we can actually
just do a simple like user metadata lookup.
Every time you're using like an LLM to do something, you're probably going to have higher cost,
higher latency and probably lower consistency of user experience.
Because even if you do a really great job of like making your LLM work, you know, you're probably
still less than two nines, meaning you're probably less than 99 percent, you know, accurate, for lack
of a better word. And that means that you have like a percentage of time where like you're
generating the wrong answer. And so as much as possible, you want to like reduce the surface area
of where you can return a wrong answer. So again, this is another place where intent
classification is really helpful. And so you can start to basically find those common
queries and basically convert it from this LLM driven thing to more structured workflow.
And if I remember correctly, I think Jason literally just wrote a tweet about this.
I independently wrote this slide before reading that tweet.
But yeah, so definitely it's a it's a common thing that people are seeing.
You know, it's not just me. Oh, one other thing on the task breakdown.
Another way that you can get more consistency, lower latency and cost, sometimes you can
semantically cache answers. This doesn't always make sense.
You have to think about it carefully in your use case.
But, you know, if you've gone through the process of like identifying the correct answer to a query,
and if another user asks the exact same question, why run it through an LLM again?
Just return the same answer you gave last time. When the answers have things that are personalized
to the user, that starts to become more difficult. But yeah, for suffice to say, if you have
something that's less personalized, that becomes an option.
Next thing, not evaluating for false negatives. So very often, you know, especially folks that have been
in Jason's RAD course, I'm sure you go through a process of like evaluating sort of the relevancy
of the documents you're retrieving. Very often I find people that are doing some evaluation of the
relevancy are not actually evaluating for false negatives. They're only looking at the documents
that we decided to give to the LLM and rating whether they're relevant or not. And, you know,
I love this sort of like lamp post cartoon where it's like, you know, you lost your keys and you're
looking under the light post because that's where the light is. And that's usually like a similar
vibe. So you really want to know not only, hey, out of the documents I chose, which ones were
actually relevant and which ones weren't. And that tells you a little bit about your false positive
rate. You also want to know, hey, the documents that I didn't decide to include and I didn't
retrieve, were any of those relevant? Because that'll give you other insights on how to kind
of improve your retrieval. And so, you know, I saw this with this academic research assistant.
So basically there were papers that were relevant for the queries and they were kind of just outside
the retrieval window that they had been using. And when they were checking the evaluation,
they basically were only looking at those 10 documents that were included. And basically
a lot of the leverage and improving the system was outside of that window. So, you know, the fix to
this is you want to go beyond the window when you're logging things, beyond just what you include
or give to the LLM or the generation phase. You want to make sure you're able to either log or
reproduce sort of the scores for your ranking or retrieval. That way you can kind of look at how
well your retrieval matches like actual relevancy and not have it biased just by the stuff that you
gave to the LLM. And so this might lead you to like adjusting retrieval parameters, like increasing
K, refining embeddings so that you capture those missed hits. Next thing, no visibility and retrieval
sufficiency. So similar, I see a lot of people annotating and evaluating the relevancy of
documents. I see very few people annotating the sufficiency of retrieval. At the end of the day,
I don't care if you got four relevant documents. If with those four relevant documents, I can't
sufficiently answer the user's query. So I think a lot about sort of how coarse your annotations
and evaluations are. So, you know, at the highest level, I care about whether the whole RAG system
gave the user the right answer. The next thing I care about is, you know, if we didn't get the
right answer, was the retrieval sufficient? And then retrieval relevance is one level below that.
You know, if the retrieval wasn't relevant, did I get any relevant documents or how many did I get?
And then you can start to ask, okay, why wasn't it sufficient? Do I have all of the information in
my corpus and I just couldn't get it, find it? Or do I just like not have the documents in my corpus
to answer this kind of query? But retrieval sufficiency, annotating that actually gives you
a very quick lens into where to focus your time. You end up having this nice little quadrant of
answer correct, retrieval sufficient, answer correct, retrieval insufficient, answer incorrect,
retrieval sufficient, answer incorrect, retrieval insufficient. And each of those quadrants has a
different way to look at it and handle it. And so this tends to be like a pretty powerful tool
that I don't see people using very often. Talk a little bit about re-ranking problems.
One, overusing boosting. So boosting, for those who are not aware, is essentially, it's really hard
to get your re-ranker, especially an off-the-shelf one, to do precisely what you want. And a really
easy tool or knob you have is to just fiddle with the ranking score a little bit. So you might just
add a thing. So like with this financial news summarization, basically, since they cared about
the semiconductor industry, they wanted to boost documents related to that. And so they added some
boosting rule for that. They wanted to boost recent things. They wanted to boost buzzwords that were
related to earnings. But basically, they added so many of these that it started to become really
difficult to understand how the system was working. And so boosting, generally, I think, is a little
bit of a hack. The reality is in building real systems, you sometimes have to resort to hacks
to get the behavior you want. When you overuse this, it starts to make the system a little bit
more complex. And so really minimize the manual boosting rules that you're adding. And if you start
getting to the point where you need much better performance, that starts to signal to you that
maybe you need to train your own cross-encoder re-ranker so that it adapts to the data you actually
have. Allowing face palm results. So this is something that I kind of faced a lot when I
worked on recommendation systems at LinkedIn. There's this infamous example where there was a
CEO that went and looked at job recommendations, and we recommended them an internship. And the CEO
made a tweet about it, and it blew up, and big issue. So there's a lot of times where your
retrieval is going to kind of return these kind of face palm results. Results that are just so
obviously bad that you wonder how it ever got there. And a lot of this is because those lower
layers of retrieval, again, are optimizing for high recall. Meaning we're getting anything that
might be relevant. And so your re-ranking layer needs to be really good at kind of pushing all
of the cruft to the bottom. And so one thing you really want to do is make sure a lot of these
face palm results that you're monitoring them. So first, do everything you can to get rid of them.
So apply metadata filters to exclude certain document types that you know aren't going to be
relevant for the query. Sometimes when you have, if you have complex use cases where you're
crawling and you're getting a lot of documents from unknown sources, sometimes you need to blacklist
domains, known bad titles, other things that typically have spammy content.
Going back to looking at your chunks, you want to make sure you're removing all of those low value
chunks. But also you want to make sure you're monitoring your system. The reality is like
rag systems can get pretty complex and they can fail in interesting ways. And sometimes you think
you fixed the issues that led to face palm results and then suddenly the metadata fields
aren't getting populated that you filter on and now those things aren't getting filtered again.
And so having sort of a set of queries that at some point has returned face palm results that
you run periodically and review, really good tool just to go through and see like, hey, are we getting
these face palm results? And there's things you can do to automate the looking at that too,
by building some sort of like AI judge or verifier. This is the biggest one, the most common mistake
I see across the industry, increasing complexity without evals. The number of times I walk into
a client project and they have told me, we know exactly what the problem is. So we implemented this
open search index with four different retrieval paths and re-ranking on top,
whereas they were just using simple database lookups before. The number of times I've seen
something like that without them having evals, I would say 90 plus percent of the time the new
system did worse after you evaluated it. And so a big, big piece of advice here, it's easy to fool
yourself into thinking you know what the problem is. Maybe you do. I don't think I'm smart enough
to take that bet, so I like to have evals to help as guardrails. So make sure you always have evals.
Anytime you're significantly increasing the complexity of your rag system,
you're increasing the maintenance cost. You are adding implementation burden that's taking away
and providing opportunity cost. So you want to make really sure that it's going to be worth the
time. And so having evals is, in my opinion, the only way you can meaningfully do that.
And we'll talk about some stuff in generation and then wrap up.
So in generation, I often see people trying to use simple rag systems for reasoning-based queries.
If you have a simple rag system that really just has one step of retrieval,
it can't really connect dots between things. So if with this academic research assistant,
there was this query where someone was asking how one thing affected another, and they were just
doing a one-step retrieval. The challenge with that is you kind of need to pull things.
We needed to pull research papers that depended on what we learned from the first retrieval,
because there's kind of like multiple dots that we need to connect there.
And so a lot of times, single pass or simple rag like this can't handle that. So anytime you have
a use case like this, and by the way, I would say 90% plus people do not have this use case.
Most people have fairly simple, straightforward rag system setups. But if you do have this problem
or challenge in your product, adopting agentic rag workflows can be super helpful. So you can
interleave retrieval and reasoning. Doing things that pre-compute some synthesis documents. So
if you kind of have some sense of things that are related, you can essentially add
metadata like this to the documents. In some cases, you can also construct knowledge graphs
that help you retrieve things on a more like edge basis. And then you can kind of traverse the graph
in a way where you get things that are connected. So again, this is something I think most people
don't have. But when you do have this problem, like a simple rag system is probably not going to
cut it. And I think this is the last anti-pattern I see. No output guardrails for hallucinations.
And I think this is the last anti-pattern I see. No output guardrails for hallucination.
So in the medical advice chatbot, there was a patient that asked for the side effects of a drug.
And the LLM hallucinated a side effect. And that's bad for a medical chatbot use case. That's really
bad. And so the best technique I've found for reducing hallucination and rag, first thing is
to make sure your LLM output is forced to provide citations in line. And then you validate each
citation to make sure it exists. And then you semantically validate that each citation
actually relates to the content that was done. And if you don't know how to do semantic validation,
Jason has some great tutorials doing it with instructor. It's pretty simple and straightforward
to get set up with it. But yeah. And so that's everything I had. I think Jason probably has some
questions. There's some links here, but we'll send out these slides afterwards. So feel free to not
have to grab the links right now. That was great. Oh my God. Yeah, I definitely learned a lot from
this. And I think the rest of the audience also agrees. A lot of comments are just talking about
how great the slides are and how everyone's really excited to follow up on this. Given that we only
have 10 minutes, I'll go through a couple of the questions here. Man, I feel like I should really
bring you on for another separate office hours. But yeah, let's jump into some questions here.
I think that the first one is probably a question that everyone's thinking about. I try not to focus
too much on tools, but do you have your preferred stack for working with these different pieces
in the RAC pipeline? Whether that's OCR, whether that's embeddings, whether that's evals.
We'd love to hear more. Yeah, I tend to not be too attached to tools. I will say that the tool that
I've been using a lot for evals lately is something called LilyPad from some folks at
Miroscope. It's in a beta. But for some context on why I use that tool, the clients that I work with
are usually not AI engineers. I think that a lot of the observability and eval products
aren't very good at enforcing best practices, particularly around versioning what you're doing.
LilyPad kind of bakes that in as a first-class concern.
The end result is when I'm working with folks who don't have an AI background,
they don't really need to think about doing the right thing. It's just like just using the tool.
They kind of do the right thing. But if you're coming from a different background,
other tools might make sense. I would say often I'm coming in and there are already tools that
are being used, and I try to just meet clients where they are. And so it's kind of like I just
use whatever stack they're using. Yeah, definitely makes sense. I think it's hard to sort of come in
and also convincingly use other different tools, especially when vendor approval and stuff like that
can be a pain sometimes. This is a question I really like, which is,
how important have you found meta-tagging of chunks in practice?
I will say that probably 40% of the clients I've worked with have indexes that are so small
that it doesn't matter. Most people are actually not working with very large data.
And then there's even customers that do have a lot of data. Very often they're B2B companies
where each of their customers has segregated data. It would never make sense to query across
customers. And so within customer, it's like there's not a whole lot of data still. So I'd say it's
fairly rare or uncommon to have enough data where I think meta-data tagging really provides
high leverage. I would say that the diversity of queries that you're answering
and the scale of the data that you have is really going to be the two important dimensions here.
If you have high diversity and high scale of documents, then the meta-data tagging becomes
a lot more useful. Yeah, I would also add it really depends on what kind of data exists
and what kind of questions people are asking. One of the things that really surprised me with one
client was that most of the time the questions being asked were actually around the authorship,
ownership, and when things have been changed. And so that really is just like a created by, modified
by, modified at meta-data tags. And once we were able to just embed those tags into the text chunks
themselves, rather than just as a property filter against, we were able to answer like 20% more
questions. This was a use case where like legal documents are changing and you can ask a question
that's like, what has changed? Who made the change? And that is a meta-data filter. So that is
meta-data that can just be appended to each text chunk. I guess another question people are asking
are around the tools for things like OCR and table extraction. Again, I think that really depends on
what people's preferences are. You know, there's Azure has tools. Dockling is a great open source
tool. We have a talk with Reducto next week on basically how they are used for like government
agencies and like Manta, for example. But are there any live questions people want to ask?
Feel free to just raise your hand and we can go there as well.
Okay, let's go through some other questions. A lot of these are just around chunking.
You indicated a percentage of queries affected. How are you measuring that metric?
Yes, you'll notice I didn't have it in every single case. But really, the thing that I help
my clients do is go through a structured evaluation process, which includes like defining an error
taxonomy. And basically, it just came from either manual annotation, or in some cases, when we were
a little bit more mature in the process, we had a sort of automated judge or classifier that could
classify the types of errors. And so it was basically off of that we had like an eval set
of queries, and then you would run through our annotation process and then make a pivot table.
And if you want to learn how to do that, I guess a plug for Hamal and Shreya have an upcoming evals
course, the last live cohort they're running. It's fantastic. I've been in it for the first cohort.
Great lessons and learnings. Let me see if I can find the link here.
I'll add it to the follow-up email as well. Awesome. Given that this is the last six minutes,
the one question I ask everyone is, what is the one question you feel like we didn't ask that we
should have? Good question.
I think the thing that
probably is top of mind that this presentation doesn't go into too much depth on
is really how do you do rag in a privacy preserving way or do like personal rag.
I think that that's something that's like totally missed out of this presentation
and somewhat important in the medical chatbot case.
Yeah, in personalization here, do you mean like memory? Do you mean something else?
I mean, if you've ever used the feature where like on Google, you can search and it will search
your own documents, but like other people can't search your documents, like how do you make rag
work in that case? Basically, a little bit of governance, a little bit of like, it's governance,
but it's also like, you know, eval becomes like an interesting question there. Like how do you eval
that system even? Yeah, I'm trying to get the OpenAI memory team to come on and give a chat,
so we'll see if we can learn anything new. Awesome. Scholar, thank you so much. We will
have the YouTube video out probably in the next couple of weeks and then before then, we will
basically share with everyone the slides, the link to LilyPad, and also some study notes that people
can reference and we can go from there. So, yeah, Scholar, thank you so much. We have to
learn a ton. Hopefully, I can get you to co-publish a blog post or come on to OfficeOut at some time.
This was a really, really great talk. Awesome. Thanks, everyone. Take care, everyone.
