So I'm really excited to bring on Collin today.
I think generally it's my opinion that coding agents have been like the clearest proving
grounds for any of these like long running tool rich agentic systems.
And they're like the first ones that really drive a lot of economic value.
So I'm really excited to start this little speaker series on autonomous coding agents.
And my goal for me at least is to try to bring back as much learning as possible from these
coding agents into more general purpose rag systems.
Today's guest, Collin, was previously a founding engineer at a company called Augment, which
open sourced the top ranked SWE agent and has helped build a lot of Augment's state
of the art tool suites.
He's also co-authored the meta science paper Cicero, which was the first diplomacy AI to
reach human parity and knows a lot about agents.
And in the next 30 minutes, he's going to share with us what he's learned about building
systems, specifically on sweet bench.
And by the end, I hope we can bring a couple more things to the verticals that we build
on.
We'll have questions at the end.
If you share the slido in the chat, you can basically ask your questions there, upload
them.
And with that, Collin, take it away.
So the topic we're going to talk about is this question.
Do agents make rag obsolete?
And here I really mean rag in quotes.
So rag is this kind of traditional idea we have.
It's evolved over the past couple of years.
And you have this embedding database with pine cone or insert any other tool, turbo
puffer, and then do some dot products.
And then you get all these relevant documents and you put them in your prompts.
Does agents make all that obsolete?
And we're going to use my experience building an agent for sweet bench verified as our case
study.
Sweet bench verified for those that aren't particular as the canonical AI coding evaluation.
We'll get into a little bit more what that is as a refresher.
Okay.
AI coding.
Let's take a kind of zoom out and think about what's been going on in the space for the
past couple of years.
2023 was completion model.
So this is like GitHub copilot.
2024 was when people started using chat bots to help write code.
This is in particular when people found that cloud was really helpful when it could look
at your code base or look at files.
2025 is really about agents.
Now if we look under the hood and think about the underlying retrieval tasks that are relevant
to each of these products, the retrieval complexity is only getting higher.
So for completions, the desiderata for retrieval system is, okay, it needs to be super low
latency.
So that's hard, but the retrieval is not super difficult for code at least.
So it's, I'm trying to complete a function.
Let's say it's a implementation of a method that lives on an interface.
I probably want to go retrieve other implementations of that interface for inspiration.
And so you just need to like copy word, like look for like other locations where that function
name is present.
And that's clearly not that part of retrieval task.
The only thing that's annoying is how latency sensitive it is.
Then we go to chat bots in 2024.
And with chat bots, things are getting a little bit harder.
Okay, let's say I'm building kind of like an LLM power application.
I may have a question for my chat bot, like how do I abstract away the LLM SDK that I'm
using from my application?
So what that means is maybe I want to use OpenAI models.
Sometimes I want to use Gemini models and I want to have one consistent API for all
these and not have to use the Gemini SDK sometimes and the OpenAI SDK and other times.
And so that probably means creating some kind of interface on top of the OpenAI client and
on top of the Gemini client.
And then the question is find the locations of the Gemini SDK and the OpenAI SDK in your
code base.
Then can I figure out, okay, how do I abstract these?
And can I figure out maybe where should I put that abstraction?
And this is a bit more of a challenging retrieval problem.
And so here was when we really found like training embedding models becomes a little
bit more important.
Now with agents, it's getting a lot more complicated.
Now the agent has to understand many different parts of your code base.
It has to look through different files.
It say looks through 100K tokens worth of files and then it needs to truncate those
from the prompt and go look at another 100K worth of tokens.
So things are only getting more complicated.
A quick refresher on what exactly do you mean by retrieval here?
Everyone thinks about embedding models, but there's really a lot of different
techniques that could be used.
There's good old BM25, which, by the way, for completions, we found was extremely good.
There's embedding models, which have a little bit more flexibility or good for less
structured content are good when you're not doing just similarity, but you're doing
some kind of more complex mapping.
You're trying to model in the retrieval.
And then there's like other tools like graph and page rank.
As I mentioned, we were making this agent that could perform on this
eval called a sweep bench.
So sweep bench is essentially like I give the agent a description of a coding
problem that has access to a code base.
There are some held out tests and some not held out tests.
And then the agent has to go implement the, that PR description and that code
base, and then we run all the tests at the end and see if it passes.
It's able to do things like, you know, use whatever tools we provide it, whether
it's iterating through files or running tests.
So we created this kind of open source repo for this and it has all this simple
stuff you may need, it has a bash tool, file viewing tools, it has this notion of
a sequential thinking tool, and then everything else like Docker harnesses
so that the agent can run code and so forth.
Now we ended up getting to the top of this eval.
So you see that's, that's us there up top augment agent V zero.
One of the most interesting facts about this work was that we've explored adding
various embedding based retrieval tools, but found that for sweep bench tasks,
this was not the bottleneck.
Grep and find were sufficient.
So this is really interesting.
And frankly, the first time that I saw this result, I was like surprised.
I thought maybe there there's like a bug in our evals or something.
Cause like clearly embedding models should be so much more powerful than
grep and find and yeah, so I dig a little bit deeper and so we'll look at some
examples and try to figure out does this data point indicate that traditional
rag as we know it is obsolete.
So here we're looking at a very specific sweep bench problem.
So I'm just going to read through it so we can get some context.
So this is pulled from an actual PR on GitHub or an actual issue on GitHub.
Modeling separability matrix does not compute separability correctly
for nested compound models.
Consider the following model.
And there's some code.
It's separability matrix, as you might expect as diagonal.
If I make the model more complex, and then the user starts talking about how
in a particular situation, these inputs outputs are no longer separable.
And it's not really important here.
What is the separability matrix?
But just, but it's good to get a sense of what is the problem.
So there's this code base called astropy.
There's this function called separability matrix in this file.
And there's some property of it that seems buggy.
So now let's look at what the agent does to try to solve this problem.
So here I actually took all of our agents tool calls and LLM responses
and just pasted them here.
We can click through these and get a sense of what it's doing under the hood.
So first we have this initial prompt, which obviously contains all of this.
And we asked the agent to figure out how to fix it.
Then the agent responds.
I'll help you implement the necessary changes to fix the issue with the
separability matrix function for nested compound models.
Let's start by exploring the repository structure to get familiar with it.
Then it calls the bash tool using find, and it looks for all files that have
the prefix in the name separate.
So it's like separability separable.
And then it finds this separable.py file.
And then it uses a file reading tool to look at that file.
And then it says, now let's also look at the compound model class to
understand how it's structured.
It looks in this file core.py and it greps for the word modeling.
Then doesn't quite find anything.
So now uses a file reading tool and it reads lines one to 50 for core.py.
You'll notice here it's just reading 50 lines instead of reading all the
file to do it separable for separable.py one, because this is an option.
It can optionally just look at a few lines, but also this is a much larger file.
And so let's look at the compound model class.
It does a grep.
It still doesn't find what it's looking for.
It does another file read.
Still doesn't find what it's looking for and does another grep.
Still doesn't find it actually finds it then.
And then now it's like looking for the function.
And so now it does another grep and then it goes on and it does
implement the correct solution.
And so my takeaway looking at this was agents are dumb, but they're persistent.
So they eventually find their way around with grep and find.
In other words, the agent's persistence is compensating for worst tools.
So there are some benefits of this agentic retrieval with grep and find
one iterative retrieval is super easy.
If any of you have seen what an old school iterative retrieval setup might look like,
it's something like in this bottom, you have a prompt one, which is your query.
You put that in an embedding model, you dot product against the knowledge corpus.
You get some top K documents.
Now you have a new prompt that's query plus this top K documents.
You put that into an embedding model, which you've trained differently.
You dot product that against the knowledge corpus, you get some new top K documents.
And then you have to decide how to balance your resultant prompt between the,
this set of top K documents and this set of top K documents.
Prompt token budget management is a lot easier.
So this is some code from our code base.
And basically what happens is the agents iteratively doing this crazy
this and greping all these different files.
And anytime we hit our token budget limit, which is, I think it was 150 K
tokens, we just truncate all the old tool calls.
So here we replace all the sequential tool calls with truncated rerun tool.
If you need to see output input output again, and then we do the same for other tools.
And if it needs to go look at the output of some old tool call, like some old
grep, for example, it can just rerun that grep.
So with a vector databases, you obviously have this whole new dependency
and this whole new database you have to deal with.
You have say a sync you have to manage with completions.
We have say like a 50 millisecond service level agreement for how quickly
we update the documents on the client.
So in that VS code editor or whatever your editor is and our servers, none of
that you have to worry about anymore.
And finally, there's this really cool course correction property where if the
first call to say the bash tool with fine or earth with grep doesn't work, then
it tries again and maybe uses the view tool and then it tries again, you use this grep.
But the challenges with grep and fine are the hard to scale.
So imagine doing grep and fine against 10 million files.
What about a hundred million files?
You definitely can't replace page rank on Google with grep and find.
And they also don't work particularly well with low structure natural language.
So if we look at the bottom right here, just some random code
that I picked out, there are all these high signal words in it.
So there's text prompt, text results, token counter, count tokens, and
these make it really easy to figure out how to grep things.
Like we're calling in that we go back to this there's separate star.
Like that works because code is super structured.
And that's not necessarily true for like other kinds of content or information
you might want to retrieve over.
So what's the best of both worlds?
You can imagine this agentic loop, but with access to great
embedding models as tools.
In order to build this, you still build your underlying embedding system per
usual, and you just surface it to your agent as a tool.
Similarly to how we surface grep and find as tools.
So there are going to be some potholes when applying this to other domains.
So one of my hypotheses that I haven't really confirmed, but I think may be
true is that anthropic models are post-trained to be really good at
agentic code search specifically, but I'm not sure how well they do.
They just mentioned code is a lot of high signal keywords.
And also all of this is pretty slow and expensive.
So when we are trying to decide then, okay, how do we architect this retrieval
system, we may have some rag, so traditional rag, we may have this
agentic retrieval, embedding tools on option, the grep and find tools or other
options, there are different axes we can consider and each of these axes
has different weight, depending on the type of tool you're using.
Different axes we can consider and each of these axes has different
weight, depending on what you're building.
So there's quality, so how good is the file output?
There's latency.
So the embedding models, as I mentioned, are like 15 millisecond SLA.
Uh, agents can take many minutes.
Cost to the agents are much more, agentic retrieval is much more expensive.
Reliability.
So agentic retrieval allows that course correction, but embeddings do not.
Their size of index.
So grep and find work totally great for small to medium sized indices, but for
truly large indices, it's just too slow.
And then there's the effort to build and maintain your retrieval system.
Do you have the engineering resources to deal with maintaining some
index and updating it and whatnot?
So we look at some examples of some different kinds of configurations of
systems, traditional retrieval.
So okay, quality, it's really fast.
It's really cheap.
The reliability isn't great because there's no course correction, but it's
super scalable and it depends on the effort to build and maintain it.
The main factor here is I think whether or not you're training your embedding
models, the quality is really great, but it may degrade in certain situations,
like really large indices, or when you're retrieving or searching over content
that's super low structure where like keyword searches don't work well.
It's slow.
It's expensive.
Uh, the reliability is great because agents are persistent and they're
course correcting, and this also gets even much better when the agent has access
to some kind of signal that it's in the right direction.
So for coding tools, the agent has access to being able to run tests.
And so if it gets stuck in some direction and it has some hypothesis for the
task it's trying to complete, it can spin up an ephemeral file, run some code, see
the output, and then use that to inform how it continues to do the code search.
The size of the index, it's not that scalable as we talked about, but the
effort to build and maintain it is super easy.
And then finally, this kind of third option I mentioned, which is the
agent plus an embeddings based tool.
The quality is great.
It's still slow and expensive, but we get everything else.
So we get the reliability, persistent and course correcting, and now handles
large indices and the effort to build and maintain the retrieval system.
It's mostly easy because you have less of a need to train embedding models
because agent can just be persistent.
And now maybe you want to optimize things further and have the agentic
loop and also the really good embedding model that can help.
So I want to get through a couple like preemptive Q and A's, and then
we can talk through questions.
So one, I already built a retrieval system with custom trained embedding
models, do I check it and build agentic retrieval?
It should be clear right now.
No, build agentic retrieval on top of it.
Just take your existing system and add it as a tool to an agent loop.
How do I eval agentic retrieval?
End to end vibe develop first.
So five to 10 examples, then consider quantitative end to end eval or eval
just of the embedding tool note that improving the embedding tool won't
necessarily help because the agent is persistent.
So I'll give some anecdotes here from our experimentation.
So we were like working on an embedding base tool for sweet bench in particular.
And we had some evals that were using the kind of hill climb just on that
embedding model and we improve the embedding model, but we found that the
end to end result didn't improve because the agent was super persistent.
So you always want to start with that end to end eval first, and then go from
there, depending on where the system is struggling, I'd suggest building the
dumbest retrieval tools possible, put an agent loop on top, iterate from here
on whichever qualities of the system cause the most pain for customers or
for you and follow the previous eval instructions.
And then the last question, our last topic in traditional rag, I can improve
my system by training better embedding models.
How do I improve my system with agentic retrieval?
So in general, I would just say build better tools.
So this is the goal anecdote agents are getting radically smarter, but even
Einstein preferred writing on paper instead of the stone tablet.
So yes, these agents are persistent, but you should give them whatever you can
give them to improve the odds that they find what they're looking for.
So that could mean adding a reranker to your embedding tool.
One benefit here is you spend less tokens, so it's cheaper.
Maybe it's also faster because the agent messes up less, the precision
on that embedding tool is higher.
You can try training different embedding models for different tasks.
Maybe you have one embedding model that's really good at answering questions
about messages and Slack and another one that's really good at looking over the
code base, you can provide these as separate tools.
You also want to prompt to your tool schemas to avoid pitfalls.
So for example, if we look at our bash tool, which as we saw previously, our
footage agent was using to call grep and find and whatnot, we had to prompt
it a little to tell it like, this is how you use grep and this is how you use
find and by the way, don't do X and Y regexes because those will be really slow.
Yeah.
So that's, that's kind of everything.
I'll pause now and we can talk through any questions.
This is great.
I have a bunch of questions in my mind, but let's go over some of the questions
on the slide of Marion just shared the link back in the chat, so feel free to
just go on there and look at the questions you want to ask about the ones you care about.
I think the first question everyone's mind is actually going to be around
the frameworks that you use.
So how did you decide what tools to build?
Did you build the framework yourself?
Could you talk a little bit more about that?
Definitely.
So I built the framework myself.
Let's go all the way back here.
I found you need something very simple and it's very hard to, I looked at some
of the existing frameworks out there and they were nice, but I just, I wanted
something super simple, like I can.
Here, let's see.
I will.
Can you still see my code base for my screen?
Okay.
I'm just going to walk you through a few things in this code base,
just to give you an example.
So we have this tools directory.
There's this very simple notion of an LLM tool.
Okay.
Let's see.
Tools in a utils common.
LLM, common.py.
Okay.
Yeah.
So there's this very simple abstraction.
It's an LLM tool.
It has a name, a description, an input tool schema, and there's like a few commands on it.
Then you have this notion of a dialogue messages, which is where we keep track of
the dialogue history for the agent.
This needs to have options to add user prompts and then also agent prompts and
tool calls, and then finally you need some kind of truncation strategy.
But once you have those components, you have that dialogue messages object, and
you have this LLM tool abstraction, then you're like pretty much good to go.
You yeah, that's pretty much it.
Then you just call it the agent in a loop.
I wait for at the top level agent.
I actually just implement the LLM, this LLM tool abstraction.
And then it just has like separate LLM tools is like the dependencies.
So given those are the only things that are necessary, like I didn't
really use any frameworks.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
I think a lot of people, at least the higher level practitioners have generally
like leaned on building things yourself just because you want to find control over
the prompts and how things are called and whatnot.
It's just so simple too.
Yeah.
Is this-
I'm working on several new projects right now and cause I left augment recently to
take experiment on some different projects and I built several agents and I
literally and for total things, totally unrelated to code and I literally just
forked in this code base and made a handful of changes and it like pretty much just
works.
All right.
So there's going to be a new agent framework that you're going to release
sometime in the near future.
I love for you to comment on that, like one conversation we had earlier, like
last month where it was just, do I give my agent like access of control, command
line and have it do everything, or do you build out these specific like search
tools, like grab fine and all that.
You mentioned it's really changed the distribution of how these things behaved.
Could you talk a little bit more about that too?
Yeah.
We just give it access to a bash tool and I can do whatever it wants.
And this works because it's super persistent.
So like when it messes up or when it like runs the wrong command, then it will
figure out how to run the right command and go from there.
But yeah, if you already have a good embedding system, I wouldn't throw it
away.
It's like probably going to be better than bash.
Does that kind of answer your question?
Embeddings and you're probably going to be good to go.
Yes.
Okay.
So yeah, one interesting thing here is people have talked a lot about
tuning your system prompt and tuning your prompts.
There's a whole new access to that now with agents, which is like
tuning the set of tools for bash.
We could have instead had 10 different sub tools.
And we actually did start with this, which was like having the file
reading tool, the file editing tool, the Greq tool, the fine tool and so forth.
And then letting the agent call these tools whenever it kinda made the
code base more complex.
It didn't seem like a very fruitful direction.
I'd say.
Interesting.
It almost feels like a bitter lesson the way a lot of those things is, you
know what turns out if you just give it bash, it'll work today.
And maybe in the future, it's just keyboard and mouse inputs.
Got it.
It's almost like fewer tools, fewer tools, better tools and use tools that
are very generalizable in the hopes that future models will just be able to use
them better.
Yeah, exactly.
One question I'm really curious about is what do you feel like we can learn as
a practitioners, not in code generation, but maybe what does the AI for medical
scribes or the AI for like construction documentation or AI for legal, like for
lawyers, what can they learn from the things that the coding community has
been picking up on?
The main thing is to do agentic retrieval.
So that's like where you give the agent access to tools that are like search
tools.
The simple answer is like whatever you already have, turn those into tools and
iterate from there.
I think that's a simple thing, which is very unintuitive maybe to some people
because they want to go architect some, whenever there's something big
technological innovation, they want to go architect some whole new system, train
models and whatnot.
But this is, it's really just like a layer on top of your existing search tool,
existing search system.
And it does cost in money and it does cost in latency, but it just makes things better.
So I would just start from there.
And then there are all these different directions you can go from there, whether
it's like realizing that, okay, now this agent is so persistent, I want to give it
access to a new kind of embedding model that like, maybe it was really hard to fit
into my previous search system.
Maybe I discovered that like actually my embedding models don't help at all.
And doing some more basic search or doing like a glean integration or something
like that is just as effective and way less total cost of ownership for the team.
And so I just go to that and never came, I embedding service.
You need to make those decisions.
Once you get a sense of what's moving the needle on top of the basic
agentic retrieval system.
That makes sense.
I think cost of ownership is something that people are not really thinking about
these days, but really should as especially because in the future, more and more
things will be abstracted away.
I think maybe last year everyone was asking me how to fine tune language
models, but now very little is going in that direction.
But I think a lot more folks are thinking about doing fine tuning and
betting models.
That's an interesting topic.
I still think no one really knows how to fine tune embedding models.
Like very few people do.
New technology is I can't tell you how many people have texted me over the past
few years because they heard Augment has like really good retrieval.
They were like, how do we train good embedding models for insert category X, Y,
or Z, whether it's finance or medicine or whatnot, or therapy.
It was hard because I was just like, you need to have an AI researcher on your
team and there's not really any APIs for this.
You can't, there's nothing great out there, but now it's less important.
So I do think this is in some sense democratizing like the
really good retrieval systems.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think cursor is the only company I know who's really talked about fine
tuning their embedding models.
And that's mostly just for the tab model.
Right.
If you look at like the cursor agent, it's not really using embeddings that
often in the agent product, but code completion, you really do want
like very fast retrieval.
Yeah.
So we found fine tuning.
Medding models is really important.
It really does help.
I'll give you some examples, reasons for why it helps.
So we talked a little bit about like with code, with completions, but when you're
asking these more complicated questions, the embedding model needs to have some
understanding of your particular domain.
Like it needs to have almost the reasoning capabilities of an LLM.
Obviously it's not going to be a much smaller model, but it's like approximate
that and like most embedding models that you get off the shelf, that's not really
what they're trained to do.
They're trained to just look for similarities between text A and text B.
So it does really help, but it's just, it's a little bit less of a bottleneck
now that, now that we have this agentic retrieval.
Makes sense.
This question is pretty interesting because I think it exists in multiple scales,
but what are your thoughts on memory and how does it play with other rag
and that's what we're doing.
I know there's compact as a way of truncation, but we'd love to
hear a little bit more about that.
That's a great question.
Obviously memories are super important.
Okay.
How do you add memories?
There's a really simple thing.
I don't think this is anyone's secret sauce.
You add it to all it's it's memories and then you add it to all that reads memories.
Now, how does memories affect how we think about retrieval?
Let's look again at this example.
If we had memories here that kind of described something like at the end of
this, the model could create a memory that was something like describing
some aspects of the code base.
These are the files where models are defined.
And in general, like models have these kinds of functions on them, or these
are the relevant interfaces to consider.
When you add this stuff into the memories, it speeds up the next time I go around.
The next time I try to do an agent run that kind of has a similar kind
of search task with this.
So yeah, memories are personalization, but they're also in some way like a
semantic cache that speeds up future runs of future search or future search runs.
Yeah.
This is a big, pretty big question, but can you also talk a little bit more about
your eval harness for this seed bunch work?
Sure.
How does success look like?
How do you think about iterating on these things?
Yeah.
So it's really valuable to understand that even as you improve the embedding
model, it might not matter because the agent is so persistent, I feel like that's
a big learning that once you say it.
I wasted a lot of time on this one.
And again, this is not to say that embedding models aren't useful as tools.
They are very useful, but it's not as simple as if you make score go up on
embedding model eval, then score will go up on the end to end agentic retrieval eval.
And so that's why I recommend to start with the end to end vibe about, I
use it in general, just recommend the store words vibe evals.
I think this is something very unintuitive to people that come from like
classical ML who are always trying to make quantitative evolves, like with
natural language stuff, you can learn so much just from looking at a few examples.
Once you have a few examples and you have a baseline in your head, like
we're again, it's not a number, but it's like a baseline in your head.
If you're how good is this system?
What are the general kinds of questions or tasks that it stumbles on?
You get to a point where you could look at a problem and you can just tell if
the system's going to get this one or not.
And okay, once you're to that point, it's like an intuition thing.
Once you're to that point, then you try to poke it and you try to test out it.
And you're like, what do I think might not work here?
Uh, and you try to prove out, can I find some examples that indicate that
this particular access to the system doesn't work?
Let's say in my end, end, my be balling thing, I noticed like there, these kinds
of questions, which it's both very fast on solving and consistently solves correctly.
And then there's these other set of questions where it sometimes solves them,
but it's very slow and it does not at all solve them consistently.
Then I focus on those questions and I look at them and I'm like, maybe it's
because, oh, our grep tool doesn't ever use this particular kind of a regex pattern.
Or like our embedding models when we, when the agent sends a query to it is
never asking this particular kind of question, I think asking this particular
kind of question or doing this kind of regex will really help.
And then, so you add that to your tool schema and maybe it helps.
And then in terms of evals for that, for those kind of like more pointed problems,
you can do the vibe eval just in that embedding tool of that particular core
of that particular task.
And usually that's sufficient.
If you already have a quantitative eval lying around, that's nice.
I will say once you get to a certain like quality bar with all these
vibe eval stuff of like different following, different intuitions for
what's not working and what's working.
You do eventually get to a point where you do need the quantitative eval.
Um, so for sweet bench, that quantitative eval was it's 500 examples,
which exists in this, in, in, in sweet bench.
And there's a yes, no, at the very end of, if not the agent figured the problem out
because you just look at it, the test pass or not, you do want that because
as you're doing all these kinds of like spot checked improvements and even the
vibe evaling one improvement may negate other improvements, you need to see how
kind of everything that's out.
So eventually you do need the quantitative eval once, once you have
saturated all those like early wins, all those low hanging fruit.
Yeah.
I want to call out something that's really refreshing, which is when I
talk to you and in the context of rag, you're always giving very specific
examples of queries that we want our system to service.
I find that when we're talking to a lot of really smart engineers, but folks
who are not as familiar with research, they lead with questions like which
embodied, many of that model for that you, should I use hide or should I use
agentic rag versus your example of just what are the specific kinds of examples?
What are the failure modes and just becoming really familiar with the
evaluation suite rather than the set of tools at our disposal.
I just want to call that out because that's not something that's very big in
a lot of the consulting work that I do.
It always starts with what tool should we use?
And then it gets to, we need to be able to handle contact search
and scheduling much better.
And we need to build specific tools to do that.
Yeah.
I'd say one of my controversial takes here is that being a researcher is
actually very similar to being a product person.
It's what do I mean by this with both of them?
You're working backwards from use cases.
You're working backwards from examples.
So most AI research these days is not solving a math question on a whiteboard.
It's like data.
It's like looking at this particular agent run or this particular query and cross
referencing it against other examples and trying to understand like why that
query failed or not.
And so when you're analyzing this kind of use case level user data or exam, the
data of your kind of task distribution, that's very similar to being a product
person and like looking at and studying how are people using my product and how
can I improve it?
And so I think there's actually a ton of overlap between product and research and
engineering is like the skill that's like the odd man out.
Yeah.
That's pretty interesting.
What do you think is missing from these other folks?
I think, for example, Klein has talked about not using embedding models in the
past and going only for tool use without embeddings.
Do you think this is a matter of there are no good open source code embedding
models out there?
Is it because we're not training things correctly?
Is that because Sonnet 4 is just too good at using grep that we don't need that
in the near term?
Yeah.
I mean, for Sweetench, they're pretty small.
They're pretty small repos.
And so grep and fine work great.
And so that's how we didn't need to do some embedding models for them.
But if you want to get to truly huge code bases, or you want to be able to like
search over a code base and search over like low structure natural language,
like like in Slack or in Notion, like grep and fine are like less useful.
And so maybe it's like you have a clean, that's one thing I mentioned, or you
for, as you're told for searching over like Slack board ever, or maybe you train
your own embedding model, but it's not really just grep and fine.
And then let's say we want to search over third party code bases because these
models don't, they memorize a good amount of third party code bases.
So they do memorize the open AI SDK, but that like random SDK that you found on
GitHub that has like barely any stars that you're using, like they probably,
it probably hasn't memorized that.
So you want to be able to search over that and maybe it has docs.
And if it has docs, like, yes, you actually want to search over the code base.
The corpus that you, the size of the index can get really large.
And in this situation, grep and fine can get slow and embedding models are really
good and moving quickly through these giant corpuses.
So that's the main thing I think about is it's like, how much do you want to scale
your index and then to what are the different kinds of information that you
have in that index and like grep and fine are like going to be less and less
efficient.
I'll give you another thing that I think we're going to have coding agents search
over soon that grep and fine are definitely going to work for searching over
like video recordings of user sessions.
So I have this giant corpus of customer studies.
I recorded them all.
So I have all these hours of video footage and I want to search over those
when doing an agent call, like maybe I asked the agent a producty question, or
maybe I asked the agent, like I'm thinking of moving this particular button on this
webpage from this location to this location.
I probably need to search over all those videos.
Obviously grep and fine aren't going to be sufficient there.
So it's really like about thinking again about your use case and asking yourself
like, okay, if I was a human working on this use case and I was a really persistent
human that never got hired, would having this other tool, like this other search
tool help me?
And if the answer is yes, then like it's probably going to be useful for the
agent.
That makes sense.
Do you feel like it's almost an artifact of sweet bench being just like too much
of a toy set of evals?
I think about my time at Facebook where you just can't even grab the code base.
We have like custom tools to grep over our code base to understand like when
were the two else called this function in the past like 90 days and there's like a
special UI because it's like some mono repo, which is luckily it's a mono repo,
but in other cases that might be distributed systems and you can't grep any of that.
Yeah, I think that's spot on.
Sweet bench is like one of the most real world of the academic evals and it's very
good, but at the end of the day, it's still as an academic eval.
So the repos in are all open source, which already biases them to be pretty small
and makes them look different from like professional repositories.
And the tasks are pretty simple tasks.
So there's actually, so there's sweet bench and then there's sweet bench verified,
which is what we use.
So sweet benches, there's many more examples.
A lot of them are like crappy, like mo quality.
So you've been verified as like filtered down version that open AI released, but
they just filter down to like 500 examples from sweet bench.
So that's what we worked with.
And that's kind of the more useful one.
The sweet bench verified there, there's some statistic, like I think 90% of the
examples took less than an hour for a good engineer to solve.
So they're pretty simple examples.
And so that simplicity also makes something like grep and find the lobby's here.
And again, as I mentioned, there's like this still the latency factor.
Like, I don't know about you guys, but I've definitely had these moments where
my thumbs are twiddling for five minutes because I'm waiting for an agent to run.
I like that super annoying.
And like right now we're like, well, these tools are so good.
They're saving us so much time.
But let's roll things forward.
And everyone's used to like, gets used to the speed at which we're building with
agents that kind of latency is going to get annoying.
Yeah.
It's the first time I get wife on a plane.
I'm amazed.
And the second time I get wife on a plane is like too slow for me.
And I'm already complaining.
So there's about 12 minutes left.
We try to end at 55 because we have another talk in the hour.
One question I'd like to ask everyone is what is a question you think people are
not asking these days and they really shouldn't.
That's a really interesting topic.
I still, I don't know.
I still come back to this point that I think no one, very few people still
understand, very few people understand how to build and train good retrieval
systems.
It's like a simple thing, but it just confuses me like why no one knows how to
fine tune really good embedding models.
So I'm going to go with that one still.
I know at least at augment, like we found having fine tune embedding models was
really helpful.
So as you mentioned, other people say differently and that makes me wonder, do
they know how to train embedding models really well?
Yeah.
So I'm going to go back to that simple question.
And I bet a lot of it really is the fact that what data do you have access to
that allows you to train those embedding models?
Like the cursor team has been deploying this tab model for a year, right?
And so what they can train on is going to be much larger volume than say a
smaller company building out like their coding SDK.
I can imagine Codex can probably get a really good coding embedding model out
pretty quickly, but I don't know if cloud code can't because they don't really do
any indexing right now.
So like, how would you go back in time to build other models?
Training embedding models on user data is a very useful access.
This is her.
Yeah, I think that's going to be the big factor, especially because also
identifying whether or not the retrieval was good.
I think it's going to be very, I'm on it.
Yeah.
I think one of the things I just saw recently was like cursor has their like
bug bot, right?
Where you make a request, it is on GitHub.
There's a portal that you can use to get a request.
It is on GitHub.
There's a pull request and maybe it's just, okay, retrieval is good.
The pull request gets merged, but that's a ton of infrastructure to have to spin
up to try to collect that data.
I'm curious, do you agree with that sentiment or do you think it's actually
something else entirely?
Maybe it's not just, we don't have the data, but really there's something
fundamental about training these embedding models.
Wait, so your question is eventually is like essentially does retrieval get
harder for this, is it retrieval hard for this?
Uh, more like.
Rangling PR agents.
Have people not trained in these embedding models because they don't have
the data and they don't have the sort of sensors out in the world, like merged
pull requests to understand what is good retrieval, or do you think there's
something fundamental about like the training of embedding models themselves
rather than the data sets that they're coming from?
I just think there aren't that many people that are good at this skill.
And so, yeah, I think that's the main reason.
And then I think the data is the next thing.
Code, there's a lot of data out there that you can wrangle in all different
kinds of ways, like from GitHub and you can do all these transformations on it
and stuff, most domains don't have that.
So for code, it's mostly finding great people.
I think for other domains, it's probably more the data, but I'm also that wonder
if just that the smartest people want to work in the LLM and not on the
embedded.
That's actually an issue that that is like definitely an issue, like
more like a macro level.
I'd say also one interesting point that I was just thinking of when you
mentioned bug bot is like some other code cert tools that are really useful
is maybe I don't want to just search over the code, but I want to search over
target commits.
So I basically want to see blame of who edited what lines.
Another thing is maybe I want to do like hierarchical retrieval though
asynchronously, not while someone's asking the agent a question.
I want to take every file in the code base and write like a one line summary
of it, and I want to take every directory and write like a one line summary of
that.
Like these kinds of things can have a huge impact on the performance of retrieval
systems.
And yeah, I don't know.
I just think there's so much, there's so much to build here and yeah, it's
exciting.
I think you can also imagine giving the systems access to the language servers
or giving them access to the ability to more naturally browse code rather than
just parsing things through strings.
Like I imagine like when I debug things, I look at the stack trace, I look at the
files, then I traverse through functions.
And maybe that traversal is one way of doing it.
And then you just say any sort of straight path to debugging an issue, the
embedding should be similar or dissimilar.
Totally.
One thing with like language server protocols, which if anyone's not
familiar with that is that's essentially when you're coding your code base, you
make little squigglies under some part of your code that indicates some kind of
error.
That's this thing called the language server protocol.
It's like analyzing your code base at all times and like looking at the code and
seeing if it's correct.
They're like attaching links between a function name and like the function
definition and so forth.
Like these are pretty low.
They sometimes don't work.
Like they don't work well in broken code.
They sometimes work, but like they don't always work.
And before agents, it was a bit of a pain to figure out how to take LSP's with
all the like issues and challenges they have and integrate into the code base in
a way that, into a retrieval system that like works really consistently.
But with agents now, it's, I'm just going to paint a very simple picture.
It's like, you could have an LSP LSP tool.
And then if that doesn't work, well, then the agent can just call the like code
search tool or can call the bash tool.
And so now we can like more easily synthesize like different retrieval tools
that have different pros and cons without having to like deal with a bunch of
complicated work and fine tuning regrind curves and stuff like that.
Yeah.
I think that's super relevant.
What gets me psyched to maybe take a look at this a little bit deeper myself.
Sure.
Can I say one more fun retrieval anecdote?
So I'm working on like a side project right now.
It's just kind of like a weekend hacking project where I'm like building
a, like, what I'm trying to have the world's largest index of songs
that you can retrieve over.
So if I want to ask any question about music ever, I have this
like giant index of music.
And I am, I found like with ChatsVT, if I ask it a question, like to, I'm
searching for a song and I want to find a song that's like a mid 90s vibe,
female singer, insert other qualities.
It's not very good at doing this because it's like, it has access to a web
search tool and like web search is like not the right abstraction for
doing this kind of search.
So what I've done instead is I've taken every one of those songs and I've used
an LLM to go do deep research on each song to come up with like a, a, this,
like a dossier about that song.
And I was like for each song, I have this description and then now I'm
doing search over that and that works really well.
And I thought this was like a really cool example of like just one simple,
little like asynchronous pre-processing step took a totally not working search
system and turn it into something that like works really well.
That makes a lot of sense.
You're just creating these like synthetic summarization or summary embedding to
use and then embedding that.
Yeah.
I'm definitely going to explore a little bit more about this.
Yeah.
And I think one thing I'll just call out is right after this talk, we have
another talk coming up from the VP of Algolia and he's going to basically
talk about like query expansion, summarization, changing different
embedding models and how to learn from feedback.
And so I think it'll be a pretty interesting segue into some of
the stuff you're talking about.
That's awesome.
Excited.
As always, we'll send an email with any of the references, study notes, as well
as any kind of slides and the GitHub repos.
Before we go, Colin, is there anything else you want to say?
Where can we find you?
Yeah, you can.
Well, I'll have you send out my contact info and people can message me.
Perfect.
Yeah.
I think the feedback is that this has been super dense.
People are really excited to even just watch this back and get the slides.
So I'm gonna have everyone.
Thank you so much for sharing your expert knowledge.
I feel that there have been very few people who have been really
talking about this kind of stuff.
So this is awesome.
All right.
Bye.
