Cool.
Let's jump in today.
I'm really excited to bring on Nicholas Nevin to talk about what
rag looks like in the future.
The future is funny because we've had these conversations for a year now,
maybe eight months ago, I had predicted things like the deep research
and the illicits of the world.
You were right about a lot of things.
So I'm really curious to hear what you are going to be right about in the future.
Nicholas, take it away.
Hopefully.
Thank you so much, Jason.
And thank you everyone else for your time.
I was just in this course in the previous cohort.
So it's quite an honor to be speaking at this next one.
And I hope you guys find some things insightful today and then learn some
things new on how to think about these rag systems really today, what I'm
going to be diving into is talking about beyond question answering systems.
And looking at the future of rag and where it's already starting to take
shape is rag for reports and specifically standard operating procedures.
And so that's what we'll be diving into today.
There'll be a bit more product focused, like UX focused as well, but we'll bring
in some technical bits in the end.
And of course we can dive into more technical questions as well at the end.
To kick us off a bit about me, just cause I feel like most of you
probably don't know me yet.
I'm Nicholas.
I was born from California, did computer science at USC with a
focus on machine learning, always loved tech, finance and the outdoors.
Those are my three grounding columns there.
And really throughout my college and after I started to pursue a
career in algorithmic trading.
So really that's what I found to be the sweet spot to build and iterate in at
the intersection of tech and finance.
It was working there at a proprietary trading firm where we were building a
system for event-based trading, where I started to experiment with NLP models
and early LLMs for new sentiment analysis.
And it was during this kind of early exploration where I really started to
peak my curiosity and interest in LLMs and soon after, obviously with
tech GPT and really just the whole kind of gen AI wave kicking off myself and
probably everyone else in this class saw how this technology would be.
And as quickly as I could left that job and really wanted to go all in on LLMs
and RAG, and that was early 2023 for me.
And throughout that year was figuring out where I wanted to build and what
that was going to be and found my co-founder and we started Vantager
near the end of that year.
And Vantager, what we do is we build tailored AI solutions for the
institutional investor, highly verticalized and specialized solutions
for specifically limited partners.
So we serve small family offices with five or 10 people like in the States to
massive international wealth advisors in Asia and Europe.
Our AI systems really help them make these better investment decisions.
Which influences billions and can have lasting effects for years or even decades.
Those are the main high level points of what we do here at Vantager, but to make
it a little bit more specific beyond just vertical AI kind of RAG solutions,
really our platform now really encompasses supporting these institutional
investors with research, due diligence and portfolio monitoring.
Some of the kind of flagship features that we have are these kind of like
AI powered data rooms, as we call them.
And this is really around all about the document processing here, being
able to manage and organize these documents across all the heterogeneous
data sources that investors have access to in private markets and tagging and
classifying all that data to help them manage it better.
For the actual analytic side, we provide these dashboards, which allow these
investors to get this full kind of like global 10,000 foot view of their entire
investment landscape.
We allow them to drill down deeply into specific investment opportunities,
specific assets and companies.
And finally, we offer the ability to automate really bespoke reporting
workflows here through we have called RAG native templates.
And as the talk mentioned, these reports and templates, this is really what
we're going to be focusing on today.
This was Vantager's first flagship feature.
This is what we went to market with.
This is what we fundraised with.
This is what we started gaining serious traction around.
And we never built in the very early days, any chat bot, chat interface,
or question answering system.
We really went all in on RAG for these report outputs and decision-making workflows.
I think this talk, as Jason alluded to at the beginning is well-timed because
recently, end of 2024 into the beginning of 2025, we've seen a shift in what the
major AI players are doing and the different outputs and interfaces they are
building for users to get the most value and interact with RAG and large
language models as a whole.
Here, we really think that reports and SOPs are a primary value driver that can
deliver much more value than any simple question answering system.
Part of the reason for that is it provides decision support and high leverage outcomes
over just information retrieval and synthesis, saving time, finding answers
across heterogeneous data sources, which most kind of QA systems and chat
bots these days are very good at, but still there's so much more value to be
created and that's what I wanted to dive into today.
Why reports and not chat bots?
I think there's a place for chat bots, definitely.
And I don't want to say chat bots should not be a thing, but the point I want to
make here is that there is so much more to interacting and interfacing with RAG
and large language models and that question answering systems in the chat
interface as a whole is a very kind of first or early iteration.
And I think there's so much more that we already are seeing, but that we can really
develop to create so much more value for the user.
These basic QA chat bots are really around basic information retrieval and
this ad hoc question answering, which helps you save time finding that information.
And that can be very valuable as a starting point, right?
If you have so much of this data across all these heterogeneous sources, even
that is valuable, being able to save time.
But I personally believe here at Vanager and Jason as well, that there is so much
more to unlock than just saving time.
Where we are now with the industry and the major players, which Gemini and
OpenAI kind of released these deep research tools, they've started to come out
with these report outputs and user experience.
These reports are a step up from the traditional QA systems because they allow
for comprehensive and standalone analysis.
A really good high quality report is mutually exclusive and collectively
exhaustive covering everything that needs to be stated in that kind of topic
or information, but it's also incredibly dense and that information that has
been presented very well can really drive decisions and outcomes.
And so I think some of the examples here, just thinking about all of the
like executives and decision makers in major organizations, they quite literally
have their direct reports and these reports create these literal reports that
actually communicate the most important information in a very comprehensive and
standalone way, which they can use to make high leverage decisions, which you
can't really do in the same way with any simple kind of like chatbot system.
And to take it a step beyond reports, we're going to dive deeper into standard
operating procedures and templates.
These SOPs and templates allow organizations to bring in their knowledge
and best practices and really easily leverage them in the rag system that you
created and really makes it frictionless for them to scale that expertise across
their whole organization and really make that analysis and the way that they
process the information and make decisions from it, very consistent and standardized.
To make this more real, I want to give an example of the chatbot rag versus a
report rag and the packaging of this system.
You can see the difference in the kind of value that it would appear to for the
kind of higher ups at these organizations.
Here for the chatbot approach, we have an analyst asking ad hoc questions to a
data room, which is basically a bucket full of heterogeneous financial documents.
And they can ask these ad hoc questions such as what was the performance of this
asset in 2021, what is the fee structure?
What are some outlier investments that I should be taking a look at?
But ultimately here, even if you have a really good chatbot and rag system, what
you're really doing is saving that analyst time to find those answers manually.
And so really what that is, it's a percentage of wages and that's how it's
perceived to the decision makers and to the higher ups and to the organization
as a whole, the value is really just a percentage of their wages, where when you
take this report approach, it provides this kind of comprehensive analysis that
can inform high leverage decisions and outcomes that can make or break an
organization for my industry specifically.
These investment decisions, as I mentioned, can last for years to decades.
And so these are decisions are critical to the success or failure of any one of
these organizations to build out a rag system that is able to influence those
decisions, to help them make better decisions.
It's perceived so much higher value because it's a percentage of the outcome,
which can be some massive high leverage outcome where again, this chatbot rag
approach is really just perceived as the time saved.
So the key takeaway I want to hammer home here is that you should really be
thinking about building for decision makers, not for the report writers or
the information gatherers, align your rag outputs and the workflows that you want
to ingrain your system in to the high value decision workflows and not the
information gathering and report writing.
So here I have a quick example of what a report might look like and why it would
be valuable.
I think I already mentioned that reports are standalone in nature.
They are usually exclusive, but collectively exhaustive in all the
information they present.
And that really enables a higher up or decision maker to make decisions off of
this, whereas just from some ad hoc questions, it's less actionable to do.
And so reports, a simple report can really just be like a rag kind of a QA
system almost in a for loop.
But as you start to really look at the highest quality reports that are out
there and that exist, you'll see they're super complex in nature, not only in the
density of the information, but the ability to communicate that dense complex
information in a very presentable way that makes it easy for decision makers to
going to make those decisions.
The ability to support really like diverse outputs where you don't want these
reports to be very flat, long wall of text is ineffective in presenting
dense and complex information.
A good report will have kind of breakout sections.
It will have diagrams and visualizations.
It'll have call outs and all the kind of culmination of all of this really creates
this really high value piece that then can influence the outcomes at any
organization across any industry or domain.
Going back to the slides, want to dive into standard operating procedures and
what they are and how that builds off the basic or simple report.
An SOP is a step-by-step set of instructions that an organization carries
out and it helps them achieve efficiency, quality output, uniformity of performance.
I think is a really huge one here.
So consistency across all of these kinds of different opportunities
or projects and tasks, it helps reduce miscommunication and any failure
to comply with industry regulations.
And these SOPs are what these organizations have been developing
since the birth of that organization.
They have been iterating on it, refining on it.
And it's really like their own secret sauce for how they conduct processes
and carry out business in their industry.
It should be finance, consulting, legal, any industry, you will see that there are
these SOPs that these businesses follow and that really helps make them stand
them apart because they have superior SOPs.
SOPs in a RAG system is slightly different, really with this set of
instructions, but how it applies to RAG and how we see it at Banager is really
a way to both encode the kind of expertise into the system.
It allows you to apply it consistently across all of the different kind of
tasks or projects or information sets that you are looking at.
And so it creates this very consistent framework, despite all of the kind of
other variables that you might have in any given project.
And finally, what this unlocks is it allows the organization to make it
repeatable and such that anyone can follow it, it could be like a junior or
a senior at the organization.
They can still leverage these and follow these best practices, follow these
standard operating procedures, and it really allows them to, again, connect
that raw information and really turn that into some decision-making support.
So what are templates?
I've mentioned templates and bucketed them together with RAG reports and
SOPs. Templates are what we have built at Banager, which have been called these
RAG native templates, which are these implementation tools that make these
SOPs scalable and repeatable in your RAG system.
So it's these predefined structures for how you extract that information.
But then when you have that information, how do you process it, form opinions
around it and present that information to the ultimate decision-maker?
And so one example of that can be from Sequoia.
You don't know who Sequoia is.
They're like a tier one VC, probably the most known VCs out there.
They have been a part of every famous startup coming out of Silicon Valley.
Anyone can be an investor.
If you have some money, you can find investment opportunities.
But Sequoia has been consistently outperforming the market and
its competitors for decades.
Why is that?
Maybe it's their capital and their track record, which is opens doors
and the network they've built.
But even then that's because of the practices they followed and knowing
what questions to ask when doing diligence on any investment opportunity.
Knowing what questions to ask is as important as having the good RAG
system to ask those queries to.
If you have this junior versus a senior, the junior might be asking with this
kind of open-ended black box QA system.
As you know, garbage in and garbage out.
You then put the responsibility onto the user to know what the best questions are
and to leverage the system in the most effective way.
However, if you can take an existing standard operating procedure, the existing
questions and templates that these organizations have and allow them to leverage
that in the RAG system you built, it really creates much more value and it'll then
again, allows them to really stay above a tier above the rest and is really what
is differentiating a good organization from a bad organization is the SOPs that
they follow and it really is what defines these organizations.
The SOPs and templates together create scalable domain expertise because they
allow the same rigorous analysis to be applied across every data source,
investment opportunity, legal case, consulting gig.
And it's these kinds of rigorous analysis, which is again, the best practices that
this organization has been developing for decades, allowing them to very easily
leverage that in a very frictionless and streamlined way, it makes that so easy to
then scale that value and when you then create that output as that kind of final
decision support report, then that really will give you so much more value than any
QA work.
Three main components we've talked about thus far are reports, which are
structured outputs.
That's the new way that you can be presenting this information rather than
any single kind of like ad hoc answer to a question.
And these SOPs are what these organizations already have that they've
been developing and working on that allow them to differentiate themselves in
the industry, but also follow these best practices that they've developed that
allow them to perform their best work.
These templates are really the frameworks that these SOPs can be embedded in that
and get encode that domain knowledge and the best practices of these organizations.
And so a reports value is so much greater than the simple QA because the QA system
is the output is less clear than a high quality report that you can rely on to
really make these key decisions.
And up until now, maybe into this talk, you may have not been a hundred percent
convinced it might be because these were all like financial examples, or it might
have been a bit too abstract.
And so I think one kind of point that I want to make here as well is that SOPs
are really everywhere.
They're not just in my industry or vertical, but they can be seen everywhere.
And really the meta example here is the reason that you guys are taking this
course, the reason that you guys are even here listening to this lecture right now
is because you're in a course called systematically improving rag.
And what does that course give you?
It gives you a repeatable process to continually evaluate and improve.
And that's exactly what we do at Danager for our clients with our kind of
report and template outputs.
So you're not just here for like Jason's office hours as another analogy, because
you could go to Jason's office hours and ask him kind of any questions that you
might have, and that could be an analyst to this QA system, but are you even asking
Jason the right questions about your rag?
Are you even focusing on the right areas?
Should you be focused on maintaining your queries or fine tuning your embedding
model, or maybe just some unknown unknowns that again, might not even be
asking the right questions about.
And that's why knowing what questions to ask and what processes to follow is so
important.
And when you just give that kind of open-ended black box for any kind of input
to arrive into, then there can be so much more variance in the value of that output.
And so just like our clients benefit from this kind of standard analysis, you guys
all benefit from standardized rag improvement.
And Jason's course really has encoding, is encoding expertise from all of the
startups he's consulted to the large companies that he's worked with into a
repeatable process, which you can follow time over time again, to consistently
have good results.
And that's exactly what we believe Advantager high value rag systems should do.
So to step away a little bit, I wanted to reflect as well on the past kind of year
and a half or so that I have been working on Advantager and really the lessons that
I have learned building rag for reports.
I sectioned this into kind of two main parts, which is I would say like the
prototyping phase and then really like the scaling phase.
And I think this is probably a bit more useful for those who are very still in
that early prototyping phase and that zero to one, but I think nonetheless, these
kind of takeaways and learnings can be applied to any rag system and to any kind
of engineering team.
The first one, and really starting from zero here is that VIBE tests can take
you very far.
I know that there's a lot of push on evals and they're definitely necessary.
And we leverage evals all the time now, day in, day out here at Advantager.
But when you're in that very early prototyping iteration phase, perhaps you
may be still exploring the IDMAs or you've already found some direction.
You can still leverage VIBE tests and they can still get you very far.
And we were able to build quite high quality reports before we even had our
first initial kind of set of evals.
And this is especially applicable to those with very small teams for the
first nine months or so, it was just me and my co-founder.
And so I was really responsible kind of for building a whole system end to end
full stack.
And so leveraging whatever you have at that moment in time is something I don't
want to dismiss.
And so evals are very important, but I think they were even more so important
when the VIBE tests start to fail you.
The second point is one that I think Jason and many of the other speakers have
already driven, but I want to do the same here, which is look at your queries,
look at the data and look at kind of these golden outputs and the ideal kind of
quote unquote answers almost that you can get from your system here.
And it's not just looking at them.
That is really what's important here.
It's having a deep fundamental understanding of all three and the
relationships in mind, because I truly believe that only when you have a deep
understanding of all three and the relationships, that's when you can
actually start to understand how to design your system in a way that fits that
best.
So with the kind of queries or inputs that are coming in at the top of the
system, top of funnel, what data do you need to then pull or retrieve or search
for to go and effectively answer that?
And then even when you get that data, how are you supposed to be formatting it?
How are you supposed to be synthesizing and bringing all that information
together to really create the most high leverage outputs that you can?
And the specifics and nuances of your data should definitely affect your
system design.
With that being said, as you design your system, don't just jump into these
advanced kind of complex rag techniques.
I think your system will continuously grow in complexity almost no matter what
as you continue to scale and grow.
And don't, there's no reason to accelerate that process more than you need to
start simple where you can and when you can use deterministic methods.
If possible, if there's a problem, don't just like blindly throw an LLM at it.
And also be careful of falling into these kind of, I don't want to call them
rabbit holes, but can be really big time things, which might not even be the
right place to be focusing on at this very early stage.
So if you're very early on and you are like hyper-focused on your chunking or
something as a bit of an example, I think I would take a step back and really try
to understand what are the simplest things that we can do.
And then if those don't work, then that's when you increase the complexity.
It's much easier to scale up in the complexity than it is to bring it
back down to simplicity.
And the final one here for just this very early zero to one phase is just
log everything as soon as you can.
You don't need any fancy tools.
It's simple database can do.
We personally use Langfuse here at Danager.
But what I want to say is you want to be logging stuff very early on, even
while you're still leveraging, perhaps vibe tests and you're not even,
don't even have evals yet.
And the reason for that is, is when you want those evals, you really
want to have that data available.
You don't want to create that over rely on synthetic data.
And you don't want to wait for more kind of user activity to sit around and
wait for that to happen to get enough data to build the kind of eval set
that you want.
And so you started logging everything from the beginning, even if it's a bit
rudimentary, even if it's a bit kind of naive, you should be able to wrangle
that data and leverage it downstream.
And that's what we found really valuable for us in that paid dividends later on.
As things will progress, this is the one to end phase, that one to infinity
phase of now you're really at the scaling date, you're done prototyping.
You really want to take this and run with it all the way.
And who knows what, build a billion dollar company with it.
At this stage, the use cases of your system and product market fit should
have definitely matured by now.
You should have a clear understanding of who you're serving, who's using your
system and yeah, what are the kind of expected inputs and outputs here?
I think at this phase is really where I started to find really a lot of value in
Jason's playbook and really the teachings of this course generally, where now it's
kind of time to start segmenting your queries and your system capabilities and
start diving into really start creating that systematic kind of improvement.
Yeah.
Like playbook, but you can keep running back.
So you want to be a, have a little bit of foresight here.
You want to be able to front run this kind of stagnation that is inevitable
because it is inevitable that the vibes tests will eventually kind of no longer
work, you're going to start to lose confidence in this prompting change or
model change, or if fine tuning these embeddings is actually making any kind
of moving the needle and making a significant difference, and you should be
using and building your system kind of day in and day out, that it should be
relatively easy to have that foresight and start to see, okay, maybe in a few
months from now, or maybe like by Q2 of this year, Q3 of this year, I feel like
I'm not going to be able to just go off vibes anymore.
And that's really where you want to already start building evals so that by
the time these vibes tests do start to fail you, you already have the evals,
you already have the data that you have been collecting from the very early
stage and you never hit that plateau or that stagnation and you just keep going
up and to the right.
Some other kind of things that we do here, maybe uniquely or not so advantage
here that we found really valuable is one is leveraging industry experts
and bringing them in house.
And so obviously this works for us because we have a highly verticalized
kind of solution, but I think for a lot of our existence, you can really
still leverage the industry experts and those you're trying to serve.
And we have them label data for us, help us build goldens, work with our clients
and customers to help them improve and iterate on their kind of templates
and report outputs.
And so we found that really invaluable to really bring in as many kinds of
industry experts that you have access to.
Finally, as it relates to reports and templates, you really, again, the key
takeaways of this talk is you want to be able to support these domain specific
templates and best practices that these organizations already have in their
organizations, you don't need to like reinvent the wheel here.
You want to be able to leverage and plug into the best processes that they've
already established and by doing so, then you can generate really high value
outputs that again, align with the decision and high leverage outcome workflows.
Rather than this black box with these ad hoc questions, or depending on the
question you ask, there can be high variance and kind of the value
perceived from that system.
Finally, just a little snippet here is some of the evals that we had run very
early on that Jason had helped work through.
This one was one for like query and system capability kind of segmentation.
So we looked at all of our data and all of the kind of reports that we had been
generating and we segmented into around 20 topics, but also into different kind
of system capabilities.
And so as I had shown in that report example, that a really high quality
report is very like dynamic in nature and it's not like this flat wall of text.
And so it's the ability to make these reports convey this dense complex
information, but in a way that's very digestible, understandable and well
presented is really like an art in itself.
And so your system needs to be able to have those capabilities.
And so here, what we did is we did a heat map across both the query topics
and the system capabilities of these different output types.
And it really allowed us as Jason mentioned this course to figure out what
areas we needed to focus on and what areas that we could maybe ignore or
prioritize just based off the volume and also the kind of actual user
satisfaction and answer relevancy from our eval dataset.
So that's really my talk for today on reports and standard operating procedures.
If you guys found anything that I had talked about interesting
and engaging and insightful.
I think last call out that I wanted to make for this talk is that we're
constantly hiring and growing our team here at manager.
We're really trying to push the boundaries of what's possible with
rag and applied AI, stay ahead of industry trends.
And we have a small team right now in Manhattan, um, against
serving these global kind of financial institutions.
And so, yeah, we're always looking to connect with ambitious engineers who
are hungry for really difficult data and system problems.
And yeah, if you found this, this talk interesting at all, or just
want to stay in touch, I've left some of my information below.
You can reach out to me on email, LinkedIn or Twitter.
And I, yeah, I look forward to hopefully hearing from some of you after this.
And yeah, thank you so much for your time today.
Hopefully you guys found some of this new and insightful and a new way to
think about how to build rag systems and how to even just repackage them slightly
to just create so much more value to the end user and to step away from, I would
say just the trend of building out chatbots, because I'll be honest, I'm
quite sick of chatbots.
I'm sure there's a lot of people have like kind of the chatbot QA fatigue.
And so to just take a step back, think about what you're building and to really
think, can I align with these high outcome decisions and these workflows
for these decision makers?
Cool.
Yeah.
Thank you so much.
Awesome.
Awesome.
I think there's a couple of questions, so let's just jump in.
I think many questions are down this angle of how do you actually verify
that the content is trustworthy?
Right?
How do you, maybe in two parts, one, how do you build trust with the customer
and the client that your content is correct?
And then two, how do you think about things like correctness or factuality?
You know, I believe that was two questions.
Yeah.
So I think for kind of correctness and factuality in these reports, I think we
initially had a lot of difficulty evaluating reports in that kind of full,
kind of comprehensive scope for the full output of that report, but really what
I had mentioned as a simple kind of report generation system can really just
be a QA kind of rag in a four loop.
And so in the same ways that you can apply those kinds of verification and
confidence building in the kind of answer sources there, you can just break
down your report into these kinds of micro sections or questions that you are
answering in these kinds of more isolated, granular, vulnerable atomic
units and evaluate those and then that kind of average across will give you
the output of the kind of whole report at hand.
But some other things that we do specifically for our industry, and I
don't an advantage here, I don't know if it will be applicable to everyone, but
as I do mention that we do have, obviously we put a lot of effort into
sourcing and kind of the UX there, but again, we have this data verification
kind of data validation layer on the actual product, which we allow both the
clients and customers to use, but we also have our kind of in-house industry
experts have that.
So this data kind of validation and trustworthiness, the ability to almost
sign off on a report is ingrained in the kind of workflow of our product.
And so being able to say, Hey, this is just a report that I ran and generated
and I haven't looked at it yet versus something that I've approved, read
through, it's ready for that decision maker.
It's ready for that investment committee.
That kind of workflow is deeply ingrained in our product as well.
And then I guess, how do you communicate that or at least set expectations
with the customer and Grok and ChatGP say, LLM might hallucinate, might
have this misinformation.
How do you set that expectation with the customer?
Yeah.
And so I think obviously one is what you can do from the system, the
engineering side, and obviously another is just in terms of the expectation
setting between these clients and customers.
And I think one thing that we always wanted to really drive here is that
the manager is not supposed to be making any of the investment decisions or these
kind of outcomes for the clients, but really supposed to be supporting them as
such.
And so really still having that human in the loop or that kind of human
verification before the kind of decision maker can really fully make that
decision off of it is something that we found very valuable and kind of
communicating the expectations for.
But obviously having really good sourcing just throughout the application,
depending on if it's reports, these kinds of dashboards we talked about, being
able to click through any piece of information and see directly where it
came from in the source is something that, you know, we put a lot of effort into.
But of course, yeah, at the end of the day, there is the lack of kind of trust in
any AI system.
And so doing the best you can there to work with kind of the expectation setting.
This is probably a pretty common question as well.
Have your reports tended to follow a very standard format or are they
customized for every client?
How much do they know what they want versus is it you leading them to
generate these reports?
Yeah, that's a really interesting question.
I like that one.
So the short answer is like it's a mixed bag.
There is a core set of kind of reports and or templates that you could consider
to be more generalizable across the specific kind of niche or vertical that
we're in while every organization has standard operating procedures.
There are definitely some that definitely overlap and have a lot of
commonality within it there.
What we do is we provide like defaults or there's almost like temperate library
in a way that allows users to very quickly leverage.
Some very like common kind of report outputs that is very likely that they
would have something similar to in their own work, but to the kind of bespoke
part, I think that's actually where it gets really interesting because each
investor and maybe across all these different consulting and legal and any
other domain, they have their very specific kind of frameworks on how
they do their processes.
And so one example of that is every investor has their own investment thesis
for why they invest, why they're making these investment decisions and why they
say yes or no, a really easy example of that is a family office might be just
driven or make decisions based on absolute returns.
I care about what's going to return me the most money.
And as long as it does that, and that's what I want to be investing in where a
large endowment or a pension fund where they're have much more kind of risk
averse, but also all of their holdings are publicly disclosed and available as well.
They are much more focused on the DEI nature of these investment opportunities
and how it looks from like a public perception and they're not care about
absolute returns.
And so that's just one example about how every investor has their own reasons for
they invest their own investment framework.
And so that's really where we allow them to ingrain that and code their own
framework into our template and reporting systems.
And to kind of the last part of that question is do they do it themselves?
Do we have to guide them?
It's definitely a meet in the middle thing where they have these kind of
processes and frameworks that they want to leverage and use.
We have the rag system.
And so it's meeting in the middle, making that work and being able to translate it
into this kind of rag native way.
Let's do one more question from Slido and then we can jump into live questions.
So folks can raise their hands and have a question ready.
We can do that.
I'm curious if you're actually doing these days.
So were the diagrams in the sample report also generated by a manager?
And could you explain at a high level what that could look like for report generation?
Yeah, I think that was something that we were pushed very early on from our
initial kind of design partners in the early days of Vantager, which is especially
as it relates to financial information, the ability to format and display these
information, this data in a way that is digestible and a very understandable to
the kind of report reader or audience is absolutely critical.
And so having just very text heavy reports was the early, early, early
iteration and version of our system.
There was a lot of kind of complaints or aversions as it wasn't able to communicate
the information in the same way.
And so we've put a lot of effort into increasing the capabilities of our system
to be able to support much more kind of advanced and analysis, looking at these
charts, diagrams, larger table extraction and the likes, because again, it's that
way of creating this non-flat kind of output that's what makes the report very
engaging as well.
And so those have been really things that we've been focused on for quite a while now.
So, Truv?
Yeah, the talk was really interesting.
There's been a lot of talk about like usage based pricing and business models
with AI tools.
So I'm curious, given that you view the value that you deliver as a percentage of
the overall investment size, like how does that impact like your pricing model and
how you go to the customers and enter commercial agreements and like how receptive
do you think like this part of the market, which is a little bit more traditional is
to like a usage based pricing model?
I think in terms of like when you're selling and trying to onboard new customers
and clients, I think definitely pitching the kind of value in that way, I think
was a really fundamental shift for us that we realized was really valuable.
But in terms of the pricing model, I would say that these traditional
organizations, we've definitely found a version to like usage based kind of credit
based approaches because there is, although you can have like credit kind of caps and
usage limits, it is still unpredictable in that sense where you don't know how
many credits you're going to be using or how much the system is going to be taking
out of it and having it without any caps or limits is a little bit scary because
these professional institutional organizations want to have a clear budget that we can
allocate 50K, a hundred K for this type of software and they want to be very predictable.
And so we've tried finding a more kind of hybrid kind of tiered approach, but there's
definitely been a version and we definitely don't do like pure usage.
Fadim?
Yeah.
So my question is a trading algorithm is a decision maker, right?
It does a hundred percent of a decision and something like Vantager is decision support.
It supports people as someone who's been on both sides, what are his thoughts on these
two niches and when is it better to be a decision maker and when is it better to be
decision support?
I think for decision maker, it's something we explored very early on, but I think it
really depends on your industry and who you're trying to sell to, which is does that
person want their decisions being made for them?
And for our use case and our clients, that's not what they were interested in.
That's not what they were coming to us for.
They weren't coming for us for this kind of rag kind of black box system that outputs
Oh, investing company A not company B, but they again wanted that standardized way to
process all the information to help them ultimately make that decision.
So it's a bit hard for me to have a generalized kind of like rule set or insight across the
two.
But I would say that I think you can very quickly find out by talking to your kind of
clients and customers are these decisions that they want to be offloaded onto them.
But I think for us, it's the outcome of that decision and how impactful it can be is
already reports and decision port and AI systems.
Generally, there's a bit of a lack of trust.
If you're allocating, have you have billions of dollars under management and you are
allocating millions and millions of dollars across all these different sectors and
geographies and different investment opportunities.
That is not something that you just want to give away and trust an AI system for
should it maybe even be the best in the world.
And I think really the yeah, how important and impactful that decision is, the more and
more impactful it is, the probably the less and less there's more and more kind of worry
and aversion to giving that trust away to some upon the system.
I also want to maybe add a little bit, which is that I think in algorithmic trading, the
feedback loop is very tight and so you have high velocity and high volume of data.
And so you can make millions of trades and train models that can learn off of millions
of trades that were happening in the past week to make predictions on the next million
of trades that happen somewhere else.
Right.
If I hit a golf ball, I'll know pretty quickly whether or not it goes in the hole.
Whereas I think in the decision support systems, I don't really know how many
investments a firm really makes, but it's just probably not enough to actually have
enough data to back prop any kind of model.
Right.
If you're making like five investments a year on a fund that needs to run for 15 years,
that signal, I think is just much harder.
I think that's also probably just a factor of, yeah, what is the velocity and volume
of data that we have to make better decisions?
Cause I think if there is a world where we had all the data, we could make a model that's
better at decision making, but it probably just is the case that it can't be better.
Yeah.
I think, and I think the frequency or cadence of that decision making as well, definitely
as you mentioned, especially if you're an HFT or something, your system is making
hundreds of decisions a minute.
And so there it's slightly different than these kinds of massive big capital
allocations.
And so it's a bit different from trading than kind of long-term investing.
And so, yeah, that's definitely something that we see differences in.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you, Nico.
It's a very interesting talk.
I have maybe a simple question about, you didn't say a lot about where do you meet
the user, but I share your frustration with chat interfaces, but at the same time,
chat interface allows you to course correct easily, as in like you have an ongoing
interaction.
What do you do to ensure that the first brief is correct and you get all the
information you need?
Any tips?
And I just want to share something that, for example, open AI deep research, always
ask you a follow-up question, regardless of what you put in the first prompt.
Even if you say that don't ask me follow-up question, they will still ask you a follow-up
question to clarify the big tips like this.
Yeah.
I think that the open AI one is an analogy as well, because I think that's part of, I
think where the SOPs and templates really come in that we don't have in that example.
I think there's so much kind of variance that can come from starting off with a
single kind of query or report starting point, or even like the follow-up questions
that might get asked and your answers to that can all of a sudden completely diverge
on like completely two separate kind of report outputs.
And so I think there definitely is this kind of interactivity where reports are a
iterative process as well.
And it's not like you one shot a perfect report, but I would say where a lot of the
initial legwork really comes in is really in perfecting these templates.
And these templates are like mission critical where they ensure that all of the
kind of inputs coming in are really high quality.
And thus the outputs have a much higher likelihood of being also very high quality
where again, if you have some mediocre or not as good template, garbage in kind of
garbage out.
And so that really, there's a lot of emphasis on iterating and improving those
templates.
Those take time.
It's really, again, we see that as really like an edge that each organization will
have because they will have different templates that they want to apply because
they think about these processes in slightly different ways.
I think it would be like a way to structure the brief to your product or maybe
I'm missing something.

And I can actually, I actually realized I didn't give an example of one.
So I did actually.
You haven't, you actually didn't really share how you basically interact with the
users.
Maybe if you could show that.
Yeah.
So I think what we can, I can show here is an example of a template.
And while this one is slightly more of a checklist, I think this is the point that
I want to make.
And I hopefully this answers your question a bit better, which is here is the kind of
standardized way that some kind of organization likes to conduct their due
diligence.
And so again, going back to that Sequoia example, it's these kind of exact kind of
queries and or processes that they want to follow.
It's the way that they do their diligence, which is what we put a lot of emphasis in
right, because that allows initial output to be very high quality.
But then as you mentioned, going back to the UX, again, our reports are this
iterative process as well.
So after this report kind of output is there, you obviously are able to take that
as a draft and to improving on it.
And so there's not just this single shot output that is now, you know, frozen as
it is, but it is still this iterative process.
The most high quality reports will inevitably need, but as the reports as well,
there can be simpler reports and templates.
This is quite a long one, but there can be simple ones that you can really get right
on the first time, especially if they become increasingly common and yeah, common
across all the different kind of users that you have.
Okay.
Thank you.
Let's do one last question with Dave and then we can, I think.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
Yeah.
It was great presentation, Nico.
So thank you very much for your time.
Unless I missed it, I didn't hear the word agent or agentic a single time.
So my question is, do you use an agentic framework?
Are you doing anything with the genetic frameworks?
Cause this seems like it's a perfect use case based on other use cases I've looked
at, and it seems like every one of the presentations that I participated in, in
the place I work it's agents.
So what's happening with agents?
Yeah.
I think agents are very interesting because I, there's so much, I think,
potential and excitement around agents.
I personally am still not fully come around to their kind of value in production.
And I think part of the reason is for Ari kind of use case is I still find it.
There's still too much kind of variance can be introduced with these kind of more
fully like agentic like workflows and full kind of end to end systems where again,
you do have this very like standardized kind of procedure that you want to follow.
And you can get an agent to follow that procedure step by step, but I don't really
consider that to be like an agent anymore because there's not as much like
decision making, right?
It's not looking, Oh, should I go research this or can I go research this?
It's methodically going through and following.
Yeah.
Because you have this so the template, right?
I feel like that you're, yeah.
So you're aligning or programming the flow to the templates.
So that's why it's a good fit because you don't really need the autonomy, right?
I think what you can, maybe an analogy might there might be is like when an agent,
a lot of the times must create like a plan for like how to tackle this larger like task.
But if you're the same agent twice, you could come up with two very different plans
or there's a lot of variance to that alone.
So we take that part away from the models, at least to start at least on our current
system and that kind of is used almost as that, that planning phase is something that
we work with, with our organizations.
And then it's much more kind of methodical in that nature and there's less,
yeah, open-ended and variation.
And then, so a quick sub question.
Do you have a language that defines the templates or did you, is it just all just
the templates we've iterated a lot on?
We've tried a lot of different things and we have kind of a somewhat proprietary way
that we like both these templates because they need to both be rag and AI system
native where your LLM, your agent, your rag system can leverage it, but it also has to
be have good user experience for the actual end user organization to be building off of
iterating and improving.
And so you have to meet in the middle where you let, you know, conserve the system and
the rag agents, but it can also be very quickly iterated on by the humans as well.
We're trying to find that middle ground is still something we're still working towards
as well.
Yeah, great.
Thank you.
And good luck with the manager.
Awesome.
Thank you so much.
Appreciate it.
Awesome.
I think that's basically time.
We nailed the time here.
You got awesome.
Awesome.
Thank you so much.
I'm going to summarize some of these notes and then post everything on the
Maven page as usual.
And I think this Thursday will be the last office hours.
And then what we're going to do afterwards is just, we're going to keep the slack up
or to move everything to Maven so people can access it over time.
And yeah, I think that concludes all the guest lectures.
Nico, thank you so much.
It was a really great talk.
Thank you.
Thank you for letting me finish up the talks.
Take care.
