Hey everyone.
Yeah, thanks for coming onto this lightning lesson.
The goal of this session really is to just learn from a couple of other consultants.
I think a lot of the time I talk a lot about my advisory work and also my consulting work,
but I think a lot of folks are actually doing a lot closer to agency work and development
work.
And so I was really excited to bring in both Andy, who runs an agency, as well as Vignesh,
who runs a solo practice to come talk a little bit more about the work that we do.
And I guess this is part of a series that I plan on running in the future, mostly focused
on learning how to do like any consulting.
And when I started out, I was just like eating shit for nine months and it was really helpful
to get them books, meet some other people, figure out what's going on, especially around
pricing and getting customers and all that.
And I think I have a lot to learn from both Vignesh and Andy as well.
So I'm excited to bring these two together.
Vignesh worked at Drift and Kensho, and I think he's a great consultant.
And I think those will really cover the basis of what people are thinking of doing with
consulting.
And I think all three of us represent a very different approach to how we tackle the same
opportunity.
Most of my background is actually machine learning research and so I think that's what
I'm most interested in doing.
And I think I'm really excited to be working with Andy and Andy, and I think Andy is a
great partner.
I think Andy is a great partner in the whole process of consulting.
And I think Andy is a great partner in the whole process of consulting.
So I think I'm really excited to be working with Andy and Andy.
And I think all three of us represent a very different approach to how we tackle the same
opportunity.
Most of my background is actually machine learning research.
And so these days, instead of doing implementation, I just help other software engineers think
more like machine learning researchers.
Whereas I think these agencies and these dev devs are definitely more in line with how to
directly help the business deliver some kind of product.
And so for both of you, what would be like the easiest way to introduce like what you
So for me, I mostly focus on companies that have a platform already.
They're a SaaS company, but they want to get more AI features into production.
So I think companies are largely overthinking that process right now and taking too long
to do it.
My experience is all in product engineering.
I'm a generalist at heart.
So I help with that.
And what about you, Andy?
We believe every company has the opportunity to unlock pretty massive value with AI.
So we're horizontally positioned.
We form deep client partnerships to help rewire companies to move at the speed of AI.
We offer consulting, development and training.
And we're working on a stealth product right now.
Nice.
So you've already gone the route of like, oh boy, I'm really excited to talk about that.
I think that's nice.
I've talked about the similar things as before.
And I guess for me, most of what I've been doing is advisory work where there are many more
software companies building software and products that are very probabilistic and very
stochastic.
And most of my experience in the past eight, eight, nine years had been working with machine
learning models and thinking about how do you build a robot?
How do you research to motivate product?
And so it's been a lot of advisory work.
And then when I get tired of saying the same thing over and over again, then I build that
into like info products, whether that's course, whether that's company training, whether
that's workshops.
And that's been pretty fun for me.
I guess I'm here with any like, when did you leave the full time role and go into things
like consulting agency work?
I think you mentioned before you ran a dev shop prior.
So actually I worked at a number of dev shops.
I'd never run one.
I was in leadership at a couple of different dev shops.
But no, so I only got the AI bug before chat GPT claimed his name, but not that far before
chat GPT.
It was, I think when GPT-3 came out with an API.
So at the time I was still doing consulting.
I was actually doing agile consulting for Caterpillar.
And I kept that job.
It was a contract, I should say though, were I think like the first nine months of starting
a MerchHouse because just wasn't sure it was nice to have a guaranteed mortgage pay.
And then, yeah, then took off from there and then eventually let go of it.
I see.
And then I guess you had been for the most part joining, like working with startups almost
to like the exit point.
Like why didn't you join other startups versus doing your own thing?
Versus starting a company myself?
Yeah, we even just, yeah, exactly.
Like running a company.
Yeah, I think starting a company is a fine option.
I wasn't, I think it was just other priorities in my life that I wanted to do.
And I think if you're going to venture back to route, you probably need to commit to five
to 10 years of your life.
And I think that's a good thing.
I think the third reason is I think consulting is really interesting because you can price
based on the actual value you're delivering.
And I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
Oh, yeah.
Definitely aligned with the, I just want to work on every single vertical possible, right?
It's like my goal is I want to have a client in healthcare, in logistics, in supply chain,
in construction, oil and gas.
And it's fun to be the one that says, okay, now that I've seen all these industries, this
is the one nugget of truth, or this is the one correct thing I can make a bet on.
I feel very confident in that.
Whereas I think people who've been working very deep in a space that would be very quickly,
sometimes like things shift from under you, but just being able to see everything and
then super, super helpful.
I guess, I guess in that sense, most of the way that I've been scaling is dealing operations
by supporting myself.
But I think in Andy's case is about hiring a team and doing the delivery.
So I'm really curious, were you, were they just the case that you were doing development
yourself and you decided to scale through building a team or that's something you knew
ahead of time?
I think I'm considering it, but I don't know if Ignatius has the same perspective.
Yeah, I didn't, I guess maybe in the back of my mind, there was always a thought maybe
it could turn into a kind of full-fledged agency.
But really what happened for me was I tried to build a SaaS company.
It went exactly nowhere, pivoted like eight times, learned every use case you can imagine
under the sun.
And what I ended up teaching myself was how to build with generative AI.
And I remember thinking at the time, it wasn't even going to be that valuable of a skill
set because it didn't feel like it was that hard.
Like it took me like a few months to get a, now I understand prompt engineering, brag,
this kind of stuff.
Like probably every programmer is just going to pick this up.
And then it turns out like, no, like most programmers just don't pick it up.
For whatever reason, it still baffles me.
So then after the SaaS company went nowhere, I decided, okay, I'll just see if I can sell
my brain to clients.
And so that started to work.
And then I got the bright idea, like we were just on a project that just could obviously
use another developer.
I said, I can get another developer for you, charge a tiny little money, a tiny bit of
money on top of his time.
And then I caught the bug.
Oh, like I just scaled that and then I wouldn't have to do any programming at all and still
make money.
That sounds interesting.
And it organically grew from there.
I think having had a background in dev shops helped a lot because I just understood the
right operational moves to be making in terms of pricing ourselves, doing contracts well,
both in the execution and the framing contracts and things like that.
And so, yeah, then we ended up scaling.
And I would say working with the team is awesome.
It's not for everybody.
You have Mao's defeat and a lot of responsibility, but on the other hand, you get to work with
amazing people who now my team is definitely all better engineers than I am.
And so it's really fascinating to just work with these people on a day to day basis.
And then to also put together a leadership team that is focused on growing your business.
It's really fulfilling.
Yeah.
And I definitely feel some level of like intellectual loneliness where it's like, you have to be
the person that's the smartest in the room and you have to be the person that's right
all the time.
And is that for being a thing, a challenge?
I think in the past we've talked about potentially growing a team, but even then.
Oh, I'm not interested in it at all.
Yeah, I don't want to hire anyone.
I don't.
I think I'm not particularly interested.
I've been a manager before.
I ran a growth engineering team for a while.
I think management is a lot of work.
I think with AI tools, it's pretty incredible how much I'm able to get done on my own.
That's been really powerful for me.
I think I like guaranteeing the output of the work.
Basically if it's immediate, there's no one else to blame.
It's totally me.
And I just try to keep the overhead as minimal as possible.
I think like Jason and I have lots of conversations about the amount of overhead he actually has
to manage.
I have a lot to add.
Like my expenses are not very high.
I don't have a lot of staff that I have to deal with.
So in terms of the question was like, how do I scale this?
Like that's a question.
I scale it by finding more valuable projects and more important problems basically.
So if I can find more expensive implementation work, basically just more problems that are
hard to work on.
And I've been taking on more advisory clients as well.
So typically it's like I take an implementation.
It always ends up taking three months of different projects for them to feel like it's in a good
state.
I transitioned over to advisory after that.
I'm like experimenting with taking advisory up, but I haven't been really.
Yeah, that's how I scale it.
I'm also not worried about, I like coding a lot.
Like I love writing code.
I love learning things.
So it works.
It's like my dream.
Yeah, interesting.
Cause I feel like on my end, because I've built up this brand, even if I hired somebody
else, I think the client was so just like, if it's 10 times wanted to talk to you, I'd
just talk to you like, Oh man, I can never go in the case in like, has that happened
to you before where it's, Oh, I want to work directly with you.
What is the language you use?
So that you get yourself out of that.
These, yeah.
When I first started pitching projects, I was the only engineer.
And so, yeah, it was always directly.
And then over time now I'm not the main engineer.
I'm like a CTO emeritus for a lot of our projects.
And that's the vibe I get.
It's more now it's more the relationships.
Let's talk about the next tranche of work or whatever.
And that's the kind of stuff that's very hard to hand off slash you never really want to
hand it off.
Maybe obviously if you're going to grow to a certain scale today as at this client
onsite, they're a large agency.
They're a hundred million dollar professional services agency.
The CEO of that company is not on every call.
So it's possible to do.
I think it's a ways off for us though.
In the end, I don't mind.
I think I'm different than Vinyash in that like I was an OK engineer, but I was never
a great engineer and I really enjoyed the relationship aspect of it, leading people,
that kind of stuff.
That's actually more fun to me.
I like meetings.
Which is good because if you look at my calendar, it's basically like nothing but eight
hours of meetings a day.
I'm not even kidding you.
I'm usually in eight hours a day.
So it's that kind of a pace for me, but I enjoy it.
So it's all about, I think, like figuring out what you really enjoy and then just
like pushing on that a lot.
Yeah.
And I guess to talk a little bit more about the work as well.
I'm curious for you, both of you actually, we all met in 2024, like mid 2024 when
things were still slowly picking up.
A lot of the clients I had were the ones that like went viral.
Now they have some like ridiculous turn because the AI is not working and I'm
coming in to up fill the team higher.
And that's what it has looked like in the past where now a lot of it has been.
Just, we are a vertically indicated AI solution for a specific industry.
These are the things we need to solve.
I'm curious, like how has the market changed in the past year or has it in
your perspective?
Are people asking for different things?
Is it of a different scale?
Is it of a different side of the company?
You have your big match.
I'm curious to hear your thoughts, but mostly because your capacity has stayed
the same.
Yeah, I think the big difference is probably last year I had to do more
convincing of people like sales, but I had to convince people more about, Hey,
you probably should be doing more AI stuff.
Or I think a lot of companies thought they could do it on their own.
So they were just like, I have a hundred engineers.
I can throw five of them on AI.
And I think a combination of them realizing that those engineers didn't
really ship anything.
Plus that if they didn't figure it out, they might die.
I think that combination of things like really hit for like September, October.
And things have just blown up for me since then.
Good.
But it's really changed the conversation.
I think now it's more, we really need to get some of these things out.
We don't know which one to pick.
We don't know how we can get it out quickly.
I think like architecting the right things, evaluating different options.
And all of that has changed.
Another huge part of it is companies are realizing it's very hard to hire.
For engineers or whatever you want to call it, applied AI engineers, whatever
you want to call it, people that understand LLMs.
It's very difficult to hire.
So more and more of my time has gone towards upskilling existing teams.
So that's part of the stuff we did.
We did a talk on how you cursor for staff engineers.
That was a good example of the type of stuff that's going on too.
That makes a lot of sense.
Yeah.
I think hiring will always be a problem.
And I think a lot of the consulting is the fact that we can divest hiring.
We can divest the headcount and make better decisions on like how
people are spending their money.
Andy, what were your thoughts on, I guess, like how the customers have changed.
I guess now that you're bigger as well, I take on larger
customers and bigger enterprises.
Yeah.
To echo Vinesh's point, I completely agree.
The vibe has shifted from, is this AI thing really for us?
Does it really work?
To, okay, we know we need to do something with AI, but we're not sure
what to do or I think I haven't personally run into this very much yet,
but I think we will start to see it.
And you guys probably run into this more, which is we have a project
that's about halfway through and we're about to abandon it
because it's not working.
Right.
Yeah.
And I don't usually get those calls, but I think that's common
in the market right now too.
So the companies we work with, we do, we catch ourselves as AI transformation
partners, so we're working with companies.
We do work with some startups, but we're mostly working with companies like
B2B companies between a hundred million and a billion.
They know they need to do something about AI.
They want to, they want to move faster, grow top line, reduce costs,
but they're not sure how.
And so then we guide them through the process of figuring out what their
potential use cases should be, where the ROI is, helping them understand
their cost to implement things and then measuring the ROI on the backend.
Interesting.
I guess this is a question that I want to ask you Andy first.
What are the questions you ask as you're scoping out these engagements?
I think I, because I'm the individual and usually I have a push, I can just ask,
hey, how much is this going to cost you to not solve this problem?
What's at stake?
And because most people have read my writing, they're very open to
sharing some of this information.
Yes.
But it's not been the case for everyone that I've talked to.
So I'm curious, how do you determine if they're a good customer or just
generally where are the questions or what's the sort of sales conversation
look like for a bigger agency?
Yeah.
We treat it like a search problem.
So when we go in, we're trying to find the needle in the haystack, which is
what's a really high ROI use case that you have for AI and we're looking amongst
a large set of hay, right, trying to find that needle.
And so there's two strategies.
One is breadth and the other is depth.
So when we go in, sometimes we'll do a workshop and we'll actually do a little
bit of education on what AI can do for a company, and then we'll ask, what do
you think AI could do at your company?
That tends to surface really good answers.
And then we also go deep.
Tell me, we'll do some like deep dive interviews.
Tell me with SMEs, tell me what your workflow is.
What is a painful, urgent problem that you can't seem to solve right now?
And what we've found is clients who aren't very technical when they get in,
when they get the AI bug, their eyes get really big and they get excited about
what they can solve with AI, sometimes a little too excited, like they may
have unrealistic expectations, but then it's our job in the sales motion to
judo that energy of, wow, AI can solve all these problems into, let's channel
that into a high ROI use case.
And then when we do our sales process, we're typically looking at three to
five different opportunities and we just put it on a simple grid of what's the
value impact here, so high, medium, low.
What's the effort high, medium, low, and is it technically feasible, go or no go.
And then from that, we let the client green light the opportunities
that make the most sense.
Got it.
Yeah, Vignesh, I guess because.
And as you transition from the implementation work to the advisory
work as the way that you've led these conversations also become very different.
In terms of like pricing or what?
I think pricing or just like how you decide whether they're a good customer
and the kinds of questions you tend to ask.
Oh yeah.
So really most of the advisory work I have is people I already worked
with for two or three months.
So it's pretty smooth.
It's just like, Hey, you already have a baseline.
I'll still be around to help architect things.
I'll still look at data with you.
So talk to the engineers, but you don't need me writing code as much.
That's pretty easy shift.
Most of the upfront work for me is on the sales side, but even that's not too
bad because most of the work for me is referral.
So people I know, I work with, send me other stuff.
It works fine because I don't need all the deal flow in the world.
I get a lot through LinkedIn.
I post on LinkedIn a lot.
So people send me stuff from that, but most of it is people I already know.
I see.
Okay.
As we go into the audience, I'm just curious, is there a question you wish I
asked and you want to go first?
I don't know if anything jumps at you.
Yeah.
I'm trying to think from maybe something about operational excellence or like how
to architect the structure of a project to set it up for success.
So to answer my own question, I have a project for success.
I would say like one of the most important skills to have is estimating
whether or not you're pricing based on how long you're going to work, being
able to correctly estimate how long it takes you to do something, every client
wants to know when it's going to be done.
And it gives you the opportunity to set an expectation and then deliver against it.
And so one of the things I would encourage people to look up is
reference class forecasting.
Basically what that says is, Hey, instead of trying to estimate how long it's going
to take you to do something based on chunk it out into buckets and put hours
next to those buckets, which is how everybody does it instead, look at past
projects you've done and how long those actually took you, and then base your
estimates off of that, that just fundamentally shifts the way that you
think about estimation and can help you really succeed in engagements where
clients want to know and you, and usually clients want to know how long it'll take.
And maybe let's see one other tip for success.
Yeah.
One last thing is meeting expectations for clients is fine, but it's a
great way to lose contracts.
What you need to be doing is exceeding expectations.
And so I tell my team, your job is actually not your number one job is not
to achieve accuracy above X percent or latency under why it is to delight your
customers.
And if you can figure that out, they will keep coming back to you with more work.
They will refer you.
And it's a game of constantly setting the bar low enough that you can jump over it
in terms of expectations and then continuing to deliver.
So that would be my two cents.
Nope, you're on mute Jason, I think.
There we go.
Classic.
I think to a Vignesh's point that if you can do a very good job, referrals will
generally be the easiest way of building any business and getting more customers.
So Vignesh, what would be a question you wish I asked you?
I don't have a particular question that I could think of.
I think to answer the operational excellence piece, I kind of shift, I shift
the focus on it.
So it's less about when am I going to get this done?
And it's more, when does the business need this?
And for example, the typical way I operate, it's not like me and some isolation,
right?
It's me, two staff engineers from the company, one SRE and the CTO.
And that's it.
That's like the Slack channel we're in and we're all doing it together.
Like I'm owning the new net new stuff, but they're helping me a lot.
Looking at data, the stuff they do.
They honestly do take on a lot of the integration work, which is as anyone here
knows, like 80% of the work, as in if you don't know the system, it's going to be
hard to do that super well.
So typically have them help me with that.
And that works out really well for me.
I think everyone, the incentives are really aligned.
I see.
Yes.
And I guess, I guess let me think of a question to ask myself as well.
Actually, maybe I'll just skip to some of these questions too.
I realized I don't even think of the question to ask myself.
This is the difficulty of also emceeing this.
Cool.
Let's jump into some open Q and A.
So if people see the Slido link, I'm just going to share it one more time.
You can go on and vote for some of the questions you want to see answered.
And then we'll go down some of them and then I'll maybe do five or six and then
we can do some live questions as well.
I think a lot of what we talked about yesterday in the cohort was around like
finding some kind of niche to tackle in the beginning.
And one of the questions is about how do you balance specificity with flexibility
in defining this niche and how do you think about prioritizing the problem that
you solve and the industries that you work with?
I don't know if either of you identify with a niche, just be letting people
know me as like the rag guy.
I'm curious, like what does that look like for you in terms of defining a niche?
Or is it just AI apps?
Yeah, I don't think I have a great niche.
Maybe my niche is like ship things in 30 days guy.
That could be my niche.
Yeah.
I don't think I have when I worked in so many different industries, I
like working in things.
Yeah.
Yeah.
What about Yandy?
It's funny.
I was talking to the CEO of this hundred million dollar professional
services firm today, or sorry, yesterday.
And he was saying, yeah, we just really haven't done our niche.
But you made it to a hundred million.
You made it to a hundred billion.
Like you got somewhere.
So I don't know how important it is to branch your things, but it helps.
It simplifies things in a lot of ways.
And certainly if you do find a great niche that you love, you can really scale it.
I would say maybe just more abstractly, there are a few different
positionings that you can take.
One of course, horizontal.
The other is vertical, vertical meaning an industry, a specific NAICS code.
You get quite specific about it.
So oil or gas and production and so on.
But I do think there's this kind of emerging space around the, what's sometimes
called a functional vertical role or functional horizontal role, but it
really is just like a role.
So like HR or finance or software engineering, right?
Because we're a lot of AI agents are now being able to take on the jobs or the
roles of folks at companies.
So I do think that's an interesting way to position yourself.
If you were an indie consultant is like really understanding all of the
HR workflows and how that can work with AI.
And I do think there's a lot of companies now looking for talent that can both
understand a niche, like the domain as well as AI.
And so if you are an indie consultant who happens to have experience in like
deep domain knowledge in something other than AI, I would say like leverage that
to the max, it's something that whenever we go into an engagement in a new
industry, that's exciting.
We don't, oh, we don't have experience in whatever construction.
It's also a complete pain in the ass because now I have to put my brain into
that world for months and try and understand all their workflows and whatever.
So anyway, yeah.
And in terms of like our niche, like I think we're trying to short answers.
I don't think we found it yet.
I'll just say that we're horizontally positioned.
We between a hundred million and a billion seems to be our sweet spot in
doing this AI transformation work.
Insofar as that's a niche, I think it's quite broad, so it might really not be a
niche, but that's our focus right now anyway.
Yeah.
I get the comment on Dinesh's point in terms of the niche, it's like, I guess
you are a certain side of the company.
If it is the case that you have you and two staff engineers and the CTO that's
also hints at some scale of business.
Right.
So we're definitely not doing jobs for McDonald's just because the sales process
might be nine months and we just can't afford to do that, but I guess in some
ways that is a niche.
I would say the thing that I've discovered was because my background is
in recommendations and search rag became the easiest thing to think about most of
2024 and then now in 2025, like I've even become more specific in the sense that
a lot of these are vertically integrated companies that do like document search.
So my relationships are with like divided databases and the PDF parsing
libraries and those folks and understanding what is the economically valuable work.
But now it's become a case where instead of the deal flow, they're having six,
10 people reach out every couple of months.
It's two people that reach out, but you're pretty sure you're going to get those
customers, but I can imagine if that changes somehow or the nature of the
industry changes, things will still feel pretty different.
This is a question that I think I really would love to answer, which is for digital
presidents, would you launch a solo consulting page and then pivot to an
agency later or go straight to an agency?
If that is the goal, I will say now that I am solo moving to any kind of agency
that feels very weird, I don't know if I feel like going backwards might be easier
of going from an agency and just being the principal engineer and always being
the one that's delivering the work and then transitioning to a second person.
I can imagine that's a little bit easier than being Jason Lou and then all of a
sudden giving them a guy named John.
That might look very different, but yeah, Vignesh, I know you, you operate under
Nyla versus just like that one year.
Yeah, honestly, the name was interesting because it didn't feel like I was doing
real work until I had a name behind it.
So that was my dad's advice.
He just said, come up with a name and make an LLC for it.
There's no tax benefits to make an LLC at all.
There's no real, there's no real reasoning behind it beyond having a brand.
I do think it helped a lot from the sales cycle perspective, a separate
landing page that's real.
Yeah.
That's been the main benefit for me.
Yeah.
I guess it opens the door if I ever want to, I'm still not super interested in
hiring people, but if I ever want to like create other products, I think under that
one umbrella, I think because it's a positive as well.
Makes a lot of sense.
Yeah, I could see I actually, my intuition was the other way or opposite from both of
you guys, like my intuition was dad just started as an indie consultant and then,
cause that's how I started.
And then my sense was like with clients, they actually got excited about my journey.
Oh, that's cool.
You're hiring some more people or whatever.
It was actually not weird to go from indie consultant to agency.
And I do think there's this like funny period when you're super early days, where
if you try to position yourself as in bigger than you are, it can feel inauthentic.
And so there's, so that's tricky to watch out for, but also here, what you guys are
saying, and so I don't know, I don't feel strongly about my intuition going the other way.
But yeah, I definitely think it's funny that I'm legally the CEO of my company,
but I would never go help any, I would never tell anybody back that that just
looked very immature in terms of the side of the company.
Yep.
Yeah.
This follow up with an interesting question, which is what do you think of the minimum
amount of professional experience to have, but go before going full-time consulting?
I personally might want to answer this first just because I think it's hard
because really the thing you want to have is proof.
It's almost like asking like, what's the best, it's like asking about credentials
and whether that, which college you've gone to, and you can definitely do it without.
It's just a matter of what is the side of the problem you're tackling, right?
There are people making a million all the year doing Zapier integrations and
automations, right?
And you can probably just figure that out and just charge very little and just do a
couple of free jobs and get some proof.
And maybe if you help a business owner with their automations, you can ask if they
have anyone they can refer you to and then you get the next job and the next job.
I think it really depends on what kind of things you're promising and what kind of
solutions you're promising, but I'm curious, Ignatius, I know you've been in
like the startup space quite a while, but I don't know if you have that counterpoint
to that.
This works for me because I, I worked at companies that like exited, right?
If I didn't, I don't think that CTOs would listen to me at all.
So I think that has been a big, and there's a lot of luck in that and all these things,
right?
I think it would be hard for me without that.
I also was a generalist, so I worked on all parts of the stack.
So with LLM problems, you have to understand product side, the scaling side, AWS.
One day you just have to learn what SG Lang is versus the LLM to tick up things very
quickly.
So I think that helps me a lot.
I have to train engineers.
They have to listen to me.
Like they have to actually trust me.
If I didn't know what I was talking about, that would be a very difficult
thing to do as well.
Uh, I think the fact that I was basically a staff level engineer is really what's
helping me now, but it's not to say that you don't need that.
I think, like you said, there, there are, there's a lot of things you can do, but
I think for the type of work I'm doing, it would be very hard to do it if you were
less than five years of experience or really honestly, probably eight.
Yeah.
Especially with the advisory work, I just find that if I get an email for some
like 22 years, they had a time I might become, how can I become an advisor and
just get paid in on the meetings?
Yeah.
It's not just English bias, right?
It's more, what have you actually done?
Can you actually prove it?
I guess if you're 22 and you've built some massive thing for Coca-Cola and you
deployed it, right?
Then who am I?
You can't sell that to someone else.
I think that's fine.
Yeah.
My story, like I started with zero AI knowledge.
I know I was previously a programmer, so there's that, but I never worked
at a startup that was successful.
I never, I worked at like little agencies my whole career and I, and I, I am, I
guess where I am today, so it's possible.
I think it's, it all depends on your skillset.
If you, it's about staffing your weaknesses, right?
If you want to go big and you're not good at something, if you can partner with
something, if you can partner with somebody who's good at that thing, then
great, like you, now you can move on and go further.
So it depends on like how fast you want to scale, how honest you can be with
yourself about your weaknesses and then how good you are at acquiring the
talent to fill in those weaknesses.
Definitely.
I think that's also the mindset of hiring versus just again, like if you
are the one man army, you can go very fast, but there's probably some max
distance that you can go.
Like I would be surprised if there's anybody I know that can be like an
individual person, even doing 10 million a year, it just feels very difficult.
Whereas if you just have a couple of small operational stuff, you can
probably get pretty fly.
Big neck like you were shrugging.
That's today, I don't know.
I think it's some way.
Me, Devin and Kirsten will do, we'll do a $10 million.
I think also I'm like quite happy with the amount of money I make now.
So it doesn't, but I think it's more, if these tools are going to keep getting
better, then I don't know if there is a limit anymore at some point.
That's definitely part of it.
If you want to know my limitation, I would say the issue is large companies
like fortune 500 companies would be quite hard for me to sell into unless I
have, cause they need a team.
They like no matter what, you just need like a team.
They need a lot of case studies and proof and all these things.
So I think that would be, it's still possible.
I have friends doing this, but it's the sales cycles are quite hard and I
don't know what I want to be doing.
Yeah.
I wonder if we can get for 10 and actually give a team and then just really
has 10 versions of cursor and a $6,000 cursor bill.
I don't know.
There's like a social contract at some point.
Yeah, exactly.
But I am interested in partnering with people like other independent,
Jason and I can projects together.
I think that can work really well as well.
Yeah.
That's yeah, I mostly have the go bundling plan versus a, like a subcontractor
kind of thing, but it's been very interesting thinking about what it looks like.
Five, six, seven, and Nila and three other LLCs at this point.
It is a little bit confusing, but yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, we're going to, we're going to read discover by knowing it's definitely
going to happen at some point.
Yeah.
I guess there was a couple of questions I really want to ask.
Actually, you look at the phone stuck out so much and it's something
I've been actually thinking about.
Once a consultant, never an employee again.
Is this true?
I want to hear Vignesh's answer first and I can give it a line.
Once a consultant, never an employee again.
Is this true?
Yeah.
If you figure out how to do it, I think that's probably ideal, but not necessarily.
If you, I would just say for me, I'm, I don't love working for someone, but I
would do it if it was just like a really special opportunity.
I think consulting helps you keep up with what's going on in the market.
You there's probably at any given time, like five to 10, very special
companies and the startup join.
And if you keep ups with, and you have a good brand, all the investors and all
that, you have a chance to join them.
So I think if something shows up and you just say, I think anyone here would
have, if Windsor was like, Hey, you get 2% and two days later it's bought.
I think people would do that.
So those types of things probably exist in the world, but yeah, it's, I really
enjoy this, I like the independence of it.
I like controlling what I put in, who I work with, who I spend my time with.
So yeah, it would be hard, very hard for me to join a job again.
Yeah.
Andy, did you have a thought on this?
Otherwise I can't shoot the answer.
I think when your sensor was great, I don't have too much to add.
Yeah.
I guess for me, I'm actually being pissed a couple of jobs right now where it is
the case where the question really is I run a business, there are some
lifestyle that I have, and so there is some notion of a price performance.
Right.
And there are plenty of companies where a small percentage of their vision is
still bigger than like your business.
Right.
So I think that that's one angle, which is just like 2% of a company that
is worth $1 billion is just more value than a single individual having a
$1 million top line business.
And then I think there's other questions.
If you run an agency or the solo person, which is like, what does
equity liquidity looks like?
There's no way I'm like, I think Andy potentially could sell a business.
I'm definitely never going to sell me because that's just called getting a job.
But if you were offered some percentage of a business or offered some percentage
of someone else's vision, the question is, is that actually bigger or smaller
than what you have in mind for some like price performance?
That's kind of been like the most realistic thing I've had.
The 2% is like almost like BP engineering level, right?
So if you look at it, like the average, like early engineer, if you're less
than five, 10 employees, realistically, if you're joining something at 20 to
50 employees, you're getting like less do the to the math guys, like diluted by
now, so just do the numbers before you join, ask for the actual like total
share count, all that.
Yeah.
I think maybe the deeper thing behind the question is, and I hate to use this
term because overuse right now, but it's agency, not starting an agency, but
till agency, and I feel like when you go out on your own, whether that's as a
consultant to business owner or whatever, you are, you're either
demonstrating existing agency or forcing yourself to get that agency.
And once you become a higher agency person, you just have a lot more options.
And I don't think locking yourself out of an opportunity because that's
an employee is makes much sense.
But I also think it's going to be harder to go back into an environment
where you can't be paid based on your ability to get shit done.
And as a consultant, if you catch that agency bug, like that, that's something
that you'll probably never let go of.
Yeah.
I think it would be hard for me to want to join open AI as like a solutions
engineer, that would be a very challenging role, whereas 2%, maybe 2% of
the open AI, for 2%, I would probably be running the go to market team.
There's one company, for example, not famous, everyone including me has the,
I ghosted the CTO of cursor in 2023 and that would have been like a hundred million dollars.
I know someone who turned down 2.5% of cursor.
Ouch.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Can you imagine 2.5% of $9 billion?
Whereas like there's been an opportunity recently that I've literally been thinking
about where they were like, we need a head of AI, we're going to raise a hundred
million dollars if you joined this, then your job is to spend $20 million.
Whereas if I wanted to have access to that capital, I would not do it through
running my agency because I simply don't have the revenue to hire certain kinds of talent.
Like I cannot have a team of people where each person has a $250,000.
I just cannot afford that.
You would change the dynamics of business of whether or not you would raise money.
And so I still think end of the day, it's a question of like price performance.
There's many Instagram sold to Facebook, right?
Kevin Systrom was a founder and became an employee.
I think that's like a question that those are like business outcomes, especially
when it comes to the agency where Kevin at that point just said, I would have
access to way more capital, way more infrastructure, way more hiring.
We can do all these things.
Cool.
Let's do one question off the live.
And then if anyone has like a live question, feel free to raise your hand
and then we can jump in, I think we have 12 minutes left.
What is one thing you wish more solo consultants knew about
positioning cells as a premium provider rather than a, some
kind of commoditized service?
I guess I on my end, I just think it's easy to do it as an individual.
Like an individual is, has the ability to have more of a presence.
Then, and then a commodity.
And so there is an aspect of that, but I think there are limiting factors of
scale when it comes to actually running the business, Andy, did you want to say
something?
Yeah, I was going to say.
I think.
However, you are, or if the goal is to be brought in as an expert, what I've
learned is it's much harder to capture that framing with the client.
If the legwork for positioning you as an expert has not been done before
you start that relationship.
And that could be in the form of a referral.
Somebody talks you up and says, Oh, these guys, this guy's great.
You got to talk to them.
That could be the, the, frankly, the school you went to and your resume
or the startup you worked at that went public or whatever, or it could be your
content online where you're demonstrating expertise, but that, I think that's the
key because if you don't do that, there's no way to just pure as just another
commoditized vendor who they can order around and you don't want to be in that
situation.
I think if you are doing work that they could hire someone full time for, they're
going to always choose someone full time.
That's just going to guess, but just because then they basically control that
person, they get the benefit of them sticking around longer term.
So really I try to find problems that are so pressing that they can't hire
someone for, and I think like hourly is.
There's an upper limit to it as well.
So I can get 200 to 50 an hour, all that.
But for me, I, the things that worked are I try to help them find, they, they have
to already know what expensive problems they have.
Usually they have to know for me, I go in, I help them pick one that's possible to
fix, and then I pick a price that might be high, but I tell them that if I don't
get it shipped in 30 days, they don't have to pay me.
So that's the incentive alignment.
I think that helps a lot.
I see.
I guess on the topic of price, like one of the really great questions here was
like, not necessarily tripling your prices, but what felt like the inflection point?
Where the way that you were able to like bring in revenue or demand like higher
fees, like what felt like that moment for you guys?
Like for me, a lot of it was coming down to like my writing.
I think most of my work in the beginning was referrals because it was very much,
Hey Jason, our board of directors wants us to have an AI strategy.
Like chat, GPD three is a thing.
Can you like talk to us and figure out what that means?
And at some point it became, Hey Jason, I've seen a couple of your blog
posts show up on my Slack.
I don't really know who you are.
I finally clicked the website and I realized you're available.
So can we figure out if it makes sense to work together?
And then I will share another blog post after the call and they're like, turns
out my CTO already read this.
What is your availability?
And that was the moment where I was like, Oh my God, like I figured something out.
It took eight months to get there.
I'm curious as like Andy, you have a similar story or just how you, what was
the inflection point in terms of growing the business?
For me, and I don't know that this applies to everybody, but for me, it was hiring
other people once I saw that I could charge Y to, to a client and pay a developer X.
And if there was a Delta between those things, it was like, that was the
holy shit moment.
And I just never had that experience before of making, it sounds gross, making
money from other people's time.
But what it really is like giving the opportunity for the business to grow
based on that Delta.
And that was the huge unlock for me.
So once I realized that it allowed us to scale a lot faster.
Yeah.
How about you, Magnus?
I think for me was when I first got into this, I was taking not even AI work.
It was just product engineering work.
And I thought 115 hours sounded good.
And it was like a reasonable number.
Me too.
It was a reasonable number.
And at the time I multiplied the hours out and I was like, I'm making more
than I was full time, so fine.
It was good.
And then you just bump numbers up a little while.
Then I shifted from that to AI and I shifted the price back down to get clients.
And I think the big thing for me was really shifting to, there's this great
article by Patrick McKenzie that I read on pricing and it was basically like, you
need to be finding the most expensive problems you can.
And it talks about how you basically can't charge hourly at some point.
It's just not possible.
You have to charge for value.
So once I started, I just take a risk.
Like I just started quoting based on projects and it went very poorly for
three or four projects at them, but I made it back.
Basically there was one month where I got a project and I finished it in a week or
two, and it was like more money than I had made if I had just worked full time,
like hourly for a month and a half or something.
It was just like this really pressing problem that came up.
And I realized I'd rather sit there for 29 days a month and find a project based
thing that I could do for one day a month, then work hourly.
And that's what shifted it for me.
I see.
That makes a lot of sense.
Yeah.
So it's almost like it's a bit of going from time-based to project-based pricing
and then getting comfortable understanding the value that your product delivers and
then trying to increase your feed to reflect the size of the problem.
Yeah, I definitely feel like when I started doing more advisory work, it was
just like, what is my hourly rate?
What am I worth to the customer?
And at some point it became the issue where when you asked the question of
what is that stake, it's we're losing $300,000 a month.
I was like, oh, okay.
If I solve this for $180 an hour, I'm getting taken advantage of.
There was a, oh, here's another story that was wild where there's one company
with paying me $700 an hour to do job interviews for people to hire their head
of AI and by the time we had the offer go out, we had hired three engineers
and the head of AI and I had made 10 to $20,000 and in my mind, I was like, oh
my God, all I had to do was just like read their resume, like log on, read
the resume, like this is great.
And then I was talking to the VP of engineering and they're like, man, this
recruiter was so goddamn expensive.
We paid out $220,000 for this recruiter to make, to build out this team.
And I was like, oh, it's because the recruiter price is on value.
The recruiter takes 20% of the compensation of every engineer.
And I know every offer was $220,000 and the head of AI was like $280,000.
And so they just took 20% of that.
And I'm thinking they're going, oh man, like the reason the, the day the head of
AI was like asking whether they should join, they were asking whether that like
Jason would stay on the project very long.
Like you mentioned that, like he saw me on a podcast and I was like,
I got really messed up.
Like I should have been trying to be more responsible for the team joining and to
success of whether or not these people joined rather than the time.
And at that point I was like 700,000 dollars.
Crazy.
And at the end of it, I was like, wow.
Okay.
So the company paid me 20 grand.
The company allocated over a million dollars of capital headcount.
The recruiter made $200,000 and then they made the series B and the head of AI
probably had their equity go up by a million dollars.
Like somehow I was the most exploited person in the room, but I was glad that
I was like, I had tripled my hourly rate and that was like a big wake up call
and understanding like, okay, I really, I need to really do a better job of
understanding like what my customer's problems are and I actually don't need
to think about what I'm worth or what value I have as an individual or how
good my skills are and as long as I can demonstrate that I know what they want.
You can do guarantees like for Vignesh's cases, if you just don't get the job done,
don't pay me now it's been the case where it's yeah, I'll help you build up the team.
We wrap up when we build the team, but I want $80,000 to build this, help you build
this team, but I'm comparing it to your capital allocation.
I'm comparing it to the fact that you'll be able to fundraise in the future.
And once you do that, the numbers you throw out, you also just feel way better.
If your friend just says, you should be charging more, just like triple it.
You're like, I want to make an enemy like immediately.
And then you realize, and then you ask the question of, Oh, how much do you
think this is going to unlock for you?
This is a, this is a hundred million dollar problem for HubSpot.
Oh, okay.
So for half a basis point, you can have me for a whole year.
This maybe feels fine.
Now it's like the biggest unlock I had for value based pricing.
Andy, you mentioned it, like the last time we talked, you mentioned like some
directions around value based pricing.
Do you, I guess for the agent side of things, has it been like, how have you
been exploring that or navigating that?
I think for a larger company, it's also probably a little bit more challenging.
Yeah.
Although I still think it's the Holy grail of agency sales is to do value based pricing.
We don't do it.
We price time materials are hourly.
I'll just say our hourly is 225.
We're trying to do it for the first time.
Say our hourly is 225.
We're trying to push it, probably pushing it to 50, maybe north of there.
And I like time materials for a lot of reasons.
One is that it, it makes it clear to the client what you're paying for is hours,
not outcomes, which I just runs in the face of everything you just said.
But here's the thing, like in generative AI, like we're taking on very large
projects, like we're going to do this entire workflow or whatever, what ends up
happening is there's all it's scope creep, right?
Constantly and all that kind of stuff.
And so it just aligned you to where when the client asks for something else, you
say, yeah, of course, great.
We'll just deprioritize something or we'll add another engineer, whatever you
need.
And so we're just super flexible and easy to work with.
Again, that being said, like I do think on some of our projects, I'd love to
explore value based pricing.
I just hired a sales guy who's interested in as well.
We'll see, talk to me in six months.
Maybe we'll have cracked it.
I'm excited.
I'm excited.
Like I think also, at least for Vignesh and I, we have so much shorter contracts.
Yeah.
And at least for me, like part of my point is that you should not need me
because I will ideally have delivered your team.
I should have hired the head of AI and done those final interviews.
And you shouldn't need me.
But as a result, I'm like also pricing on the fact that in four months you will be
gone and if you don't turn, I actually, this is not an alignment with your outcomes.
I guess this is why the Vignesh you have like more of a, you transition to
an advisor retainer model as well.
Right.
Yeah.
That's part of why I think that helps it too.
I think hourly is makes a lot of sense for something like an agency.
I think outcomes is worth talking about too.
You're, you can't guarantee that anything is going to work.
I think typically when you should.
Yeah.
So that's the thing, right?
Like even, especially in LLM world, most of the things you ship are experiments.
Like, you don't need really anything most of the time, unless it's like, Hey,
we're paying people to like manually transcribe these PDFs.
If we can do this, we can save this money.
Like that case, yes, I can believe that.
If you're like, Hey, there's this new product we want to explore, like this
search idea, and I think like really what you're saying is it's worth 50k for
us to see if it's possible.
That's what they're named for.
So the outcome you're delivering is them knowing that it works or not.
That's the end.
So if it works, that's great.
I think that shift helps with value-based pricing a lot.
Cause sometimes I'm probably like, what if it doesn't work?
And I say, that's a different problem.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is something we talked about yesterday and like, like day one co-op.
Maybe it was with Brian, I don't recall if I'm like, it was the case that if they
want me to, if you get to know the customer well enough, it's usually not the case
that they need a model to go from like A to B performance, or at least that is
something that is hard to pitch.
Whereas if in my structure, in my assessment of the business, it's really
the case that the team has like high deadlines on much more important work.
And what you're asking me to do is de-risk research, de-risking research and
seeing a model, if a model is possible, just has a different positioning versus
Jason's job as a train of model that works.
Cause again, I'm trying to bring the conversation to what is the size of the
team and how are you allocating your resources rather than Jason's job is
the middle of the model that's 6% better.
I feel like there's one very important point on pricing, which is that typically
what companies actually want is they want you to say an hourly price so that
if you get it, but they also want a cap, they want to know how much it's going
to cost in the end, so they want both.
That's probably going to be 50 K, but it's going to be 200 an hour.
So if you get it done in 10 hours, they only paid 10 times 200.
But if it goes over, then like you said, it was going to be 50.
So that I'm like, what was exactly the point of the hourly?
Yeah.
That's the worst of all possible consulting worlds.
You don't want to end up in that situation and companies last word all the time.
Maybe Andy's my daughter.
I am in that way.
Well, what we do to push back on that.
Cause it's a great point.
So we actually, we position ourselves as like an innovation team.
I never use that terminology because that has baggage with it, but that is what it is.
So we, we pitch you a team of one engineer, a PM, two engineers, a PM
at data sites, whatever is unique.
Right.
And then we try and position that as a year long contract.
And the way we go into companies is we say, look, this AI revolution thing is
going to be playing out for at least the next five to 10 years.
You guys are going to have a ton of AI stuff to do.
Here's the things we recommend you do to position yourself as a
competing win in this space.
You need a team that's executing on this the whole way through.
And we'll start you off with, we asked for a minimum of six months, sometimes
we'll negotiate this down or whatever.
And then we will still give you an estimate for how long it's going to take to do
this first tranche of work you're really excited about.
And that is whatever, two months or four months or whatever.
And we'll keep track of that and whether we beat that, but also as we're going
along with you, give us more priorities.
We're shifting the estimate.
So we try and play it that way so that they realize, Hey, like they go into this
with the frame, we're going to be paying for this team for a long time.
They're really our transformation partner.
And now we're just down to, okay, what can we get done based on this estimate?
But it's not a question of, okay, now we're going to stop paying you because
you went past the original time frame you proposed, because no matter how good
you are at estimating, it always goes past the original time frame you proposed.
It's like unavoidable.
I especially think because you're working with a team, it's also just hard to
figure out what like every, like the calculus of it all that I think is very
difficult, where I think at least for myself, I know that I feel very good with
promising certain amounts of time, just because the joke I've been telling for
the past two years is that every company's semantic search product was
like my internship in 2015.
So I've definitely just know the answer is trust me, it's going to be fine.
But the moment I have even one developer, like one day can easily become two days.
Right.
And then which case because I'm busy that day, the review happened on the third day.
And then you're like, oh my God, okay.
This is very difficult to manage expectations there.
I realized we've gone over.
I want to be responsible for everyone's time.
I guess before we wrap up, do you guys have any closing thoughts, any callouts
for other people who are like running agencies, thinking about starting, just
any tips on getting started and things to watch out for before we sign off?
Andy?
Oh boy, I have to go first.
Let's hope it's right.
I'm Vaneches Kotels.
Yeah, no, it's a great question.
I think the biggest lesson I've learned through all of this is it's all about
breaking your context into the next level.
Like when you started a job and you thought, oh gosh, I don't know if I can
ever make it as a consultant.
Like once you are in like a program like, like this, Jason, where you're around
people and you realize, holy shit, this is really possible, that is a massive unlock.
And then from there, if you want to start an agency or you want to start a product
company, whatever it is, however your path is, there is just these cascading
series of contexts you have to break yourself into and it's always uncomfortable.
And it feels painful and risky.
And, but I will say my biggest learning has just been to keep pushing, to keep
growing, and even when it doesn't work the first time, if you just keep pulling
the thread, it's surprising how far you can get.
And so the world is your oyster guys.
Like we're firmly believe that over the next five years, at least there is at
least a trillion dollars of integration services on the table for companies to
integrate AI into their offerings.
And so the work is like literally falling off the trucks.
It's out there to seize, go seize it.
Hit me up if you ever have any questions.
Awesome.
Fignesh, I'll let you go first and I'll wrap up.
I think you better like sales.
You better like marketing.
Better like operation.
Love taxes.
You need to like meeting, going to conferences and meeting people.
You need to like writing contracts.
I'm telling you, that's the stuff that like takes up a lot of time.
If you don't like it, then this is going to be a very draining job for you.
If you love that stuff, I love all that stuff.
So it works great.
I find it very interesting.
The work of I'm an engineer, so that's very important to me, but if I didn't
like all the, all the rest of this, I don't know if I'd be any good at this stuff.
So I think we, maybe we, you talk about that a lot in your course, cause that's
actually, cause I think people don't understand how much of it is this other stuff.
I had a good understanding of all of these other things because I worked at
drift and I met a lot of people in the other areas, but if you haven't seen that
before, then it can be a little bit harder at first.
That'd be my thing.
I will say, I really recommend hiring an EA.
What I realized was before getting an EA, it was me sleeping at 2am going,
oh, I don't have the CEO's address.
Let me send an email to ask the CEO for the address.
I can fill out this Dropbox form that I can then put into Dropbox sign to send over.
And then you do a whole day of work and you're like, okay, they reply with the
address, let me go add this one thing and then send this back.
And then if you have a good month, it just gets really overwhelming and getting to a
place where even just some operational help, I think is really helpful.
Maybe a big mess.
You're just like, I'll deal with myself, but sleeping out time
was very valuable for me.
You know how to do it.
And I think you're still like, you're still responsible for it.
If you have a job, you're like not responsible for any of this stuff.
Yeah.
That's the difference.
Yeah.
And then I guess one call I'll make just because I think for the most of my
consulting time of the first year, there was a lot of feelings I had around like
pricing and deservedness.
I think this is why half the material I do in the course is really just like
getting over the mindset and how do you think about pricing where you're talking
about how you're charging like more than your full-time job, but I was for the
first year I charged less money than my full-time job.
So I was like, it's a little bit different.
Maybe I don't know as much all this stuff.
And the big unlock for me was that when you're doing this work, you must believe
that is the price where both parties say thank you, right?
That you are, they, you are solving a problem that is so painful for you that
they're happy to like compensate you and reward you for the work because they're
getting something way better out.
Right.
Like I say thank you to my EA all the time.
Cause now I get to spend a day a week, like walking around in the park versus
doing paperwork.
Right.
And, but there also needs to be a price for like, you say, I think oftentimes
people ask those work, I, the work is a little risky.
Like how do I price things while and how much should I like guarantee if I do a
dollar for $5,000 at the refund of money, it doesn't make me feel good.
Like if that's the case, chances are your guarantee does not align with the
expected value of what you're asking for.
If you ask for $6,000 and it doesn't work, you feel very incentivized to take that
time, take the effort to make it work.
Whether you charge two, that guarantee doesn't feel good anymore.
And I think if you do believe that there is a number where both will say thank
you, I think it really unlocks a lot of the, your mindset on pricing.
And that was the big thing that I think struggled with the most.
Cause I was a researcher for seven years.
I know the machine learning game, but just running a business was the hardest part.
And yeah, this is what all the stuff that we're talking about in the course.
So I'll leave with that.
I know we're like 10 minutes over.
Andy, Vignesh, thank you so much.
Absolutely.
Good to see you.
Thank you so much.
Absolutely.
Good to see you.
As always, and then we'll send some notes after this.
We'll send some information.
It'll include everyone's socials and then we'll send that email out.
And if you have any questions, just feel free to reply, feel free to DM any of us.
I'm sure we're happy to respond.
Yeah.
Thank you everybody.
See you tomorrow.
See ya.
Cheers.
