Today, I'm pretty excited to bring in the folks at Extend to talk a little bit more
about document automation.
I think as most will know, if you've worked in the enterprise, manual document workflows
still swallow up a ton of effort and causes a bunch of errors in production.
And I think even in construction, for example, it takes a million documents, really just
on a single building.
And so we're processing PDFs, invoices, forms every day.
And today I'm really excited to bring in Eli, who is the CTO of Extend, to really talk
a little bit more about AI native document processing in the cloud.
I think you guys are hitting 95 plus extraction accuracy for customers like Brex and other
Fortune 500s.
And so I think in the next 30 minutes, you'll lay out the playbook that you guys have around
sort of mapping your current flows, building task specific evals, and then thinking about
powerful automation, human in the loop.
And I'm really excited to hear what you guys have to say.
Just as a call out, if anyone has questions, we'll do them at the end.
And Marin has shared a link in the bottom for Slido.
And so just ask your questions there.
We will upload up both the questions that people want to hear most, and we can go from
there at the end of the talk.
And so yeah, with that, Eli, the floor is yours.
Awesome.
Well, thanks for introducing.
Super excited to be here.
I've listened to a few of these and excited to contribute to the content here.
So yeah, we're going to talk today about kind of document automation lessons at scale, like
how to go from zero to in production with everything from startups to Fortune 500s and
just all the different challenges that prop up.
Even across industries, they tend to be pretty consistent at different types of like issues
you'll run into trying to automate an end to end flow and want to like talk about those
common failure cases and best practices.
So just a little bit about us.
We're a startup all in person in New York, growing and supporting some of the most cutting
edge teams in the industry.
Everyone from like FinTechs like Brex and Mercury to healthcare companies like Flatiron,
everything in between.
Work with some of the one of the largest like real estate marketplaces, a top five global
logistics provider and one of the larger neo banks.
So we've seen kind of it all.
From like, you know, small use cases around like ingestion to like powering critical
document workflows that power a given industry like logistics.
Yeah, so for today, just going to give you a quick agenda and TLDR if you don't stay
the whole time.
So we're going to go an overview of like what is document processing because it's extremely
broad and like kind of different types of use case and the specific type of use case
we want to focus on today and then talk about some real world use cases and then tie those
specifically to common failure cases in with like a given example and then like common
ways to handle it and best practices to fix them.
And then we'll kind of close out the TLDR of like key learnings.
If you just want to grok the spark notes here.
First and foremost, I'm sure that this is like Jason has hammered in like many times
and a lot of these different sessions, but you really need to understand your data.
In the case of document processing and specifically like document automation in a operational
flow, it's not it's not just understanding the data, it's understanding the specific
documents, but the existing manual processes around them.
I think you'll find that a lot of companies, there's a enormous amount of tacit knowledge
that's kind of like hidden in the company in people's heads, whether it's engineering
operations, domain experts of some kind that makes it extremely difficult to automate if
you don't fully understand what's actually happening today from either a data perspective
or a process perspective.
And I'll give a couple examples in the real world of that.
The second key learning is that you need to invest very early in evals.
It's essentially going to come down to how good are your evals at the specific task you're
trying to do.
It can be tempting with like document processing to think of things from a just like broad
landscape benchmarking perspective.
But in practice, when you're trying to automate like an end to end flow, the evals actually
need to be very tailored to like your domain, how you how you think about the data, how
you think about the process.
And we'll talk a little bit about that in more detail.
The third kind of like big takeaway that you should have is if you're automating like a
document based workflow, a common failure case is shooting for like 100 percent automation
at the start and creating unrealistic bar to hit from an accuracy perspective and even
just like a change management perspective, going from manual to automated.
And it's a lot better to kind of start with like piecewise automation.
And we can talk about what that looks like.
And then the final is like one also common mistake is trying to go for like a one to
one replacement of an existing process rather than thinking about the process from scratch
with automation in mind.
And we found that generally it's it can be very difficult to just full swap out something
that's been done over many years among many different stakeholders and just make that
automated as opposed to really understanding as an engineer, what is the end to end process
that's happening around this unstructured data and these documents being passed through all
these different parties and trying to redesign the process around automation from the get
go. So it's kind of the key learnings that we'll get into.
In more detail here, let's start really quick overview, because again, docking processing
is a really broad term, as I'm sure many folks must call no, no.
They're kind of like three broad strokes of use cases with kind of like forks within them.
But it's everything from like ingestion is one bucket back office, like processing when
documents kind of serve as like a system of record.
It's another bucket and then kind of like in product experiences or maybe like the more
traditional OCR, you know, uploading an invoice, getting data back in case of ingestion.
That's like rag context for agents, data mining and then the back office processing.
That is the bucket I kind of want to focus on for this call, because I think it's one of
the less lesser discussed kind of topics.
But if you're an AI engineer, like a startup trying to reinvent a vertical or you're like
an engineer, like a large enterprise that's trying to reinvent its operations, this is
actually going to be one of the most critical types of use cases for you.
And it has a lot of unintuitive challenges.
And this is when you're trying to automate and ten workflows.
And really, again, it's like you're processing some kind of system of record, like a contract
or like a deed or anything that like there is really no room for error in practice in
the end to end production flow.
And so as a quick kind of like highlight of like what docking processing compasses at
the limit across all these use cases, it's everything from the again, the OCR parsing,
chunking ingestion piece of it, the context management, then the engineering of that
context to do effective extraction, splitting, classification, etc.
Then the data labeling and evaluation around these processes, the orchestration of a
multi-step flow to process the document and then even human loop components and like
real time feedback loops to improve the system over time.
That's kind of like the end to end full stack of docking processing.
Cool. So, yeah, biggest thing I just want to call out in the very beginning, like the
most common common failure case here is like people try and one shot it.
So, you know, they shoot, they're trying to automate some kind of manual operation that
involves documents and think, OK, I know that, you know, we've got chat.
GPT, I dumped a document in.
It worked really well. Looks like it extracted perfectly.
I think I can just automate this entire thing, get rid of the humans, just change the
entire process all from this one shot in practice that will never work.
Even even if the use case is not that complex and the accuracy on the extraction is going
to be close to perfect, it's extraordinarily difficult to just like swap out a manual
process for an automated process and practice.
And it's really just like the first thing you should avoid if you're on a team that's
exploring trying to automate a workflow in an industry in a vertical and you're talking
about like people are saying, oh, we're going to be able to replace the entire thing,
cut costs by X margins like that should throw up alarm bells.
And it's just it's not actually going to happen the way you imagine it.
And it's going to set up the team, not for success, the product team, the business
stakeholders, etc, etc. So, yeah, just don't try and one shot it.
I'm going to go over three use cases to talk about the other key learnings here.
The first one that I think is pretty interesting and one of the first use cases that we
helped the team to solve is automated SAS, like software contract ingestion.
So the context is these folks have to like they have to ingest like their
customers systems of record regarding their software purchases to build an accurate
model pricing data.
And the thing to understand here is that, like, I mean, I'm sure many people in this
call have like purchase software, whether it's like Datadog or something else.
And you'll have the enterprise.
You tend to see a lot of different documents involved in that transaction.
It's not just the invoice.
It's like the order form prior to the invoice.
It's the statement of work.
It's like a DPA and MSA terms, all these different documents that kind of go into
like the package of like SOC contracts being exchanged here.
There are a lot of different challenges.
You know, again, there's these different documents and then even within a document
type, like one of the more critical ones typically is an order form.
There's high variance within that type across different suppliers, different
pricing methodologies.
I mean, think about all the different ways software can price things across like
industries, features, et cetera, and then kind of complex mapping problems around
those types of terms.
The goals for this team when they started working with us is was twofold.
They were trying to automate a heavily manual process that existed today.
But then on top of that, they wanted to process a lot of data that just could not
be processed before because it was economically unfeasible to do it purely
manual relative to the ROI that they would have had from a business standpoint.
So that was kind of what they were trying to do.
I think this customer in particular, but all that we've worked with, I think really
crystallizes the both the failure that can happen at the start and then how much
you can improve things from understanding your data and existing process.
So when they signed on again, one of our earlier customers, they kind of went full
seam ahead, rolled out very quickly, you know, wanted to just get this live as
fast as possible and start processing all these documents and rip out their existing
flow.
And as you maybe can imagine that cause all kinds of issues because it's not only
where was accuracy not high enough.
It was just difficult to actually roll this out to the whole change
management.
A lot of things were breaking downstream for them.
The quality was not what it needed to be.
They even at one point considered just throwing, abandoning the entire thing.
I think briefly.
But what we, you know, what they ended up kind of refocusing on and working with us
and our platform and tooling to do was just kind of like take a step back and
then really understand all the documents that are coming in here.
And they did this in a very actually interesting way that I think people on
this call could learn from.
So it was sort of like four key things that they did.
One was they just went to actually a human loop flows to take the existing
document flow that was using the AI driven document automation, but still
routed everything to a human, regardless of whether they thought it was accurate
or not, just so they could really robustly collect like production data
separate from the evals that they'd already created.
Two is they looped in domain experts, not on the engineering team that were in the
company that had actually been previously doing this manually and had them get
involved in tailoring the classifications and schema design.
So that better map to like the jargon.
And again, like the task and knowledge of the industry that the engineers who
initially set this up did not have.
And then third, the most important, which I think is the most interesting thing
that probably everyone could explore in some way for a given use case, you're
looking to for document automation is they created a series of extractors for
these documents that were just trying to characterize normalized attributes.
Like who is the supplier?
What kind of layout does this have?
What kind of pricing terminologies has just like sort of open-ended like, you
know, enum based characterizations of the document, again, not trying to
extract data to action on it.
It's really just create a huge set of character, like again, like categories
that they can map these documents into and then cluster them.
And they ran this whole workflow on, I think around 200,000 or so, maybe
150,000 documents, uh, close to like a million pages in like one bulk ingest.
So they could have a very accurate representation of all their historical
data and then from there be able to assess like the comm again, cluster that
data and map it back to like the known label data that they have too, and
figure out, all right, what, uh, what suppliers are actually a problem here?
What kind of pricing terms are we not extracting correctly?
What blind spots do we have in our existing flow around the
document classifications?
Like, are we just getting documents that we didn't even really know we were
getting from like a general understanding of their own flow?
Uh, and they did this and really invested in it over the course of quite
some time and then came back and fully redesigned their existing document
workflows with all this new knowledge and then reinvested in much more
tailored extractors and evals.
And now they are running a fully autonomously on this ingestion of,
um, software contract data.
And it's, it's awesome.
Um, and I think it was this, this was the type of thing that I don't think
everyone would think to do, but they had the idea to do it.
And I would strongly recommend it to any team that's like trying to automate
a very messy document ingestion flow.
Take some kind of initial first pass that is entirely focused on
understanding the data, not actually trying to get the data out, if that
makes sense.
Um, and then they ended up with like this very multi-step classification
process in the document workflow that was trying to classify these different
things that they knew would correspond to different issues that they could route
more deterministically to, um, like, okay, if it's this supplier, we are
going to extract, you know, the line items in this specific way versus that
supplier, because we know that we can get that to an extremely high clip of
accuracy when we tailor it that way.
Um, cool.
So yeah, that was one very big key learning again, understand your data,
understand your existing process, get creative in how you try and figure that
out.
Uh, sir, second use case here.
Um, this is automating document workflows and like home health.
So this is a vertical AI team that, that we work with, um, that uses our
platform to build everything from like, you know, rag ingestion flows and then
to automating like complex multi-step, like healthcare documentation workflows,
um, for their customers, which are various kinds of, um, healthcare providers.
The goal here was automated EHR entry of like referral orders and kind of
the associated data.
Um, the challenges with this use case are that referral order packages come
in these like a hundred plus oftentimes like multi hundred page scanned PDFs that
can have many different referrals in one document, kind of like this, like
history of a patient mixed in with doctor's notes, provider notes, all kinds
of like messy data that's all lumped together and like one referral package.
Um, and then even across that there's like high variants within the documents.
Oh, whoops.
I think I copied that from the wrong slide, but, um, there's high variants
within the orders themselves, like across different healthcare providers,
insurance providers, home health, like services.
It just, it gets extremely complex.
Not only from the fact that there's a bunch of different documents lumped
together, but then within each category type of the sub documents in the package.
Um, so in order to solve this in general, they were already going to use our,
our splitting capabilities and extraction center, but the, the like first pass
itself was not really enough.
And what they, when they first signed on, they're like super happy.
They got set up.
They tried to go live again, common common failure case.
Let's go live immediately.
We're going to extract all the data.
We're going to run through every document.
We're not going to have humans evolve in this process.
We're going to then just like automate the entire thing for our customers.
Of course that did not go well out of the gate.
Um, there were all kinds of issues they ran into.
There's a lot of unknown unknowns with any different document automation process.
Again, like in this, in an existing company, it's typically task and
knowledge, task and knowledge within the organization.
When you're like a vertical AI team working with your customers, it's just
like knowledge that is not documented anywhere, like you don't even fully have
an understanding of the unknown unknowns in this case, in this case.
So yeah, one of the interesting things that they did here in order to invest
in evals is they actually brought the, their AI engineers of this team worked
with in-house nurses and medical technicians, like medical, um, I've
heard the exact term, um, that's like someone that works with a doctor.
Uh, let's call it a medical technician.
Uh, and in order to build very, very, very robust, fine grained, comprehensive
eval sets across a huge variety of different example documents, and then
optimize again with actually with the nurses optimizing the schemas and really
like the kind of extraction rules where they could kind of encode like their
domain expertise around how to interpret certain kind of like doctor jargon and
then map that back into, uh, rules for the schema extraction in order to properly
extract the data so that they could again, like map it into their internal
system and then action on it for their customers.
It was actually really cool to see.
And it showed the power of evals in looping in domain experts in order to
create this sort of like flywheel effect.
And one of the big benefits here is that not only did this allow them to kind of
take a step back and like roll out with confidence and like a more controlled way.
They also have all this like proprietary eval data that is like their competitive
advantage in their industry.
So that as new models come out, as we release new versions of our extractors
and our splitters, they can very quickly and confidently like, you know, run those,
do a regression test, make sure it's only strictly improvement, and then roll out
and kind of get that like fast iteration loop.
Um, and then on top of that, what they did is they still like take some, like, I
don't know exactly how, um, they determine what percentage of documents they're
going to human review, but they still do a slice just to still understand the like
real world production data as it's changing.
Cause that's like a very important thing for everyone to keep in mind.
Like whenever you're automating some kind of workflow or some kind of ingestion
process, like the data will change over time, um, in so many different ways.
In their case, it's if they start working with new providers.
Um, and so they want to always keep that like fresh loop of like, you know,
production data to eval.
Um, yeah.
And even like things that you might not think about, like actually creating
evaluations, that's for the splitter itself, not just even the extractors.
Because again, like if you're doing a multi-step pipeline and even if you
get extraction in like a contained way to like close to a hundred percent accuracy,
if the initial step of splitting the document is wrong, the entire pipeline
has broken down.
And so you really need to invest at evals at every step of a flow when you're
trying to automate an end to end document process.
Um, okay.
Like third and final use case, um, that we'll go into the next key learning.
And this is automated claims reconciliation for like dental billing.
Um, our image here is actually a fun one.
We created all these like document, uh, document themed cookies.
And one of our favorite use cases of these explanation of benefits documents
on this team that we work with.
Um, and so here's an example of one of those cookies.
Um, but yeah, so the context on this one is it's a vertical AI startup
automating back offices for dental billing.
Um, their goals were to safely automate as many UOBs, um, like explanation
benefits documents as possible to scale their service, you know, providing
without error, because again, they, they kind of like run this like back office
dental billing for their customers.
And in fact, even like, um, kind of roll up a few, um, like small business
dental billing providers and the challenges for them is that again, kind
of similar to any sort of healthcare insurance use case, they had these
hundred plus page explanation benefits documents, uh, with complex, very
complex tables and chunking requirements because of how different claims can
stretch across like bait page boundaries.
There's not as much logical section chunking that actually separates things
as purely semantic, like of like these notes correspond to this claim and these,
um, um, procedures, et cetera.
And so it's, yeah, again, there's not much in the, like PDF structure itself
to be able to chunk on, um, just generally.
And so again, that creates a lot of complexity that they had to deal with,
um, and why they were kind of using our tooling to manage that, that chunking
and extraction, but again, it ended up being a little more complex and process
than just figuring out the chunking.
Cause they realized over time that they actually had to break this out into
a very multi-step process where they could just segment the problem.
Like, you know, trim the amount of things that have to be solved at one point in
time by one, like module extractor classifier, et cetera, and then also kind
of control the inputs where, um, if they can like know that certain providers
have certain kinds of edge cases and other providers have other kinds of edge
cases, they can create like, uh, you know, configuration workflows for each of those
providers that they most often work with and they have like a long tail catch
tool and a key like, um, thing that they also did in order to like focus on
what's called like maybe true automation rate where they're not trying to optimize
to just getting to 98% plus accuracy on like some arbitrary measure of like
extracted data from one document.
Uh, they want to go to how high of an accuracy can we get where the end to end
pipeline works a hundred percent and the times where it's not working, where it's
inaccurate, we catch those a hundred percent of the time.
So what that means is like, let's say we get, have 98% accuracy, but we don't
really know the 2% that are not going to work.
That's actually in generally, in most cases for like these critical systems of
records, like ingestion use cases, that's strictly worse than if you can get to
like 85% true automation rate where the 15% of the time that's not going to, you
know, properly handle the document.
You, you can catch that declaratively and then loop that to like some kind of
manual human oriented process.
And so they, they again, thought through this pretty early on and took this
approach where they use all these kinds of data validations and guardrails in
their system that kind of wrapped the document processing so that they could
very declaratively know, okay, this one that went through, that was correct.
And we can just now action on that.
This one for X, Y, and Z factor, we are not confident that it actually was, you
know, the whole pipeline worked properly.
We're now going to send this to one of our, um, manual operations teams to handle
this.
And again, that's the data validations.
Some of that actually is LLM driven checks that they built, um, and measured
to ensure that like this works.
We have a good, true positive, um, and true negative rate and, uh, measure that
human loop system over time to constantly make sure that there's not like a drift
in the success rate.
And then, you know, um, the last thing is like, they also, in order to make this
all work well, try to really design the process from scratch around this
automation.
And, you know, there's some benefits they had here where, because they actually
like in-house, like a billing team, they could kind of control some of the
variables so that it could be automated, um, in a better way, which is sometimes
challenging if you're building more of like a SaaS product where you do not have
control over how the customers are actually going to do things, do things.
But if you can in some ways control the process, design the end to end flow
around being able to actually validate it.
That's like the most important thing because you can get accuracy, maybe as
high as you need it to, but if you can declaratively validate, you can kind of
roll out anything into production in some form.
And that's like a really key thing when you're dealing with these, again, like
systems of records, like exchanges, uh, where the document is very critical data
that's being exchanged between two parties where there's zero room for error.
Um, so yeah, that's kind of like the other key learning there.
Now, yeah, kind of, um, taking it home summary here.
Understand your data and existing manual process that is like above all, the most
important thing by far for any trial, any kind of like AI automation that you're
doing around documents, really just AI automation in general, you can't, you
can't automate something you don't understand.
Um, and then two is invest early in like very tailored evals to your use case.
Um, lean away from kind of like broad strokes, you know, benchmarks, like it's
great if like Gemini flash is better than like GPTX at like one different thing.
It doesn't necessarily matter in practice.
Like it might not.
And you really need tailored evals to your domain and your data.
Um, yeah, break things into multiple steps through a pipeline from parsing
classification, splitting multiple, you know, potential rounds of that.
Um, and then extraction semantic chunking, just like think of it as like a
pipeline to process a document in the context of a workflow, uh, four is don't
shoot for a hundred percent automation at the start and then five is rethink
your process as much as possible.
When, and when you can around automation, as opposed to just trying to hot swap
in this like surgical transplant, like way from zero automation to full automation.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Uh, we'll go over some of the questions, um, in the, in the side of first, but
I'm actually curious, like, how do you think about, you mentioned a lot of
like change management, like how do you communicate or like do expectation
setting when you work with these customers and how do you actually think
about this kind of change management?
Yeah.
I mean, I think that that is something that we've gotten better at over time
because so it depends on the, it somewhat depends on the circumstance.
If we're working with a team that's more of like a vertical AI team where they're
actually the ones like automating a specific vertical industry, then it's
more kind of like educating them about the PR the problems and pitfalls that
they will run into by trying to do this docu automation so that they can from
the get go, think about how they're going to build this into their product
experience for their customers or how they're going to try and change this
flow, because going back to that one, that, that second use case that we talked about.
Um, you know, I think that team, we did not do a good job of like explaining to
them the challenges of change manager.
They were going to run into by trying to automate this like from scratch.
And if we had done that better upfront, which I think we do more with like our
current customers, then they will be more set up for success and that kind of like
close the loop in other cases.
We're working with more, just like a vertical business, like maybe like an
enterprise and logistics, it's actually like an extremely critical part of like
almost like the sales process and discovery process where we understand
like, what are you currently doing today?
Walk us through it end to end so we can identify, you know, there's a lot of like
common patterns we can look out for.
And if you get them to kind of talk through it, you can see like, Oh, it's
already clear that they're making the mistake of they're going to be able to go
from like, you know, many, many humans to zero humans, the moment they roll out
extend. And that is like an immediate thing where we try and throw up alarm
bells and explain to them that, Hey, not only will that not work B it's going to
be very difficult for you to actually convince your internal stakeholders that
that's like, okay.
So you start like we lead almost with trying to help them build a human loop
system from scratch so that they then again can collect the data, but then also
like most companies are much more willing to roll something out and deal with the
change management.
If you focus on kind of augmentation at start and then turn augmentation into
augment automation.
And we even have this kind of catchphrase that we, we do in our sales process,
it's like automate when possible augment.
Otherwise it's kind of like the main way to think about any sort of workflow
automation, particularly when there's like unstructured data in systems of record
and that it's so critical.
Yeah.
And I guess to follow up on that, like as you start onboarding these customers,
it sounds like a bit of that process is sort of investing in the ontology that
they want to build out.
How do you suggest these companies think about building this thing?
You know, I think there's been many times where companies will talk to me and
they want to do a knowledge graph.
They really haven't thought about where it looks like.
And then sort of you waste a lot of time, you burn a lot of cycles,
figuring out what that is.
You mentioned this technique, but I don't think I had a good understanding of
what that actually.
I mentioned this one.
The clustering on the fields and then.
Oh yeah.
Well, so I mean, so that's a bit for a knowledge graph.
I'm not totally sure what you do there, but in the case of like, let's say you're
trying to do data extraction, what that team did, which I think is a very effective
strategy that most people lean into is they did their whole process where they
rolled out with extraction first and realized there were all kinds of issues.
And then they, as like humans, looked through a lot of the data and tried to like,
you know, use their own kind of like mental machine learning models to understand
what are the common patterns of issues here?
Like what types of documents are causing problems?
It seems like certain types of suppliers are causing issues, certain types of
pricing structure causing issue, certain types of layouts are causing issue, et
cetera, et cetera.
They created these like characterizations of the document that are not like the
actual data extraction itself.
It's more like a, like a class of a specific classification of the document.
They turned that into like a schema of enums and they ran a large bulletin
and they ran a large bulk ingest of documents just to map it into these categories
and then cluster them together to see of these different categories, which one,
which ones have more accuracy issues than others.
So it's a pretty kind of like involved process and they're a fairly technical
team, but if you can do that, if you can kind of like group and categorize and
triage the specific issues, then you have a way better understanding of like what
the data actually look like, looks like.
Then if you work with a domain expert, you can kind of work backwards to
effective pipelining of like, here are the multiple steps of classification
we're going to do.
And at each point, this is the extraction we're going to try and do from that.
You kind of turn it into like a software process as opposed to a like, you know,
blob in blob out AI process.
Got it.
Got it.
Just looking at some of these questions, one of them is mostly around sort of
techniques.
The question is, is semantic chunking not very expensive to run?
Any options on how to do it cheaply or what are the alternatives one should
think about?
Yeah, I mean, so semantic chunking can be expensive and slow, especially for these
very large documents.
If cost is a factor, I mean, we often like in our product, we have like a concept of
like, you know, cheap, fast models versus performance, higher accuracy models.
And in the case of chunking, it's actually not all that challenging of a task that
smaller models can do effectively.
Model distillation is actually a really great thing to do here for something like
chunking.
So if you take like your best model, you run the chunking on a bunch of samples
and you clean out the ones that did not work and then you just distill that into
a smaller model, that is a good way to like make this more affordable.
It doesn't always solve the speed problem because there are a lot of reasons, even
if you're using an extremely fast model to do effective semantic chunking, you kind
of have to do multiple passes through a document to actually understand how to
chunk it.
Right.
And that can be time consuming.
It's not really something you can do for like that third type of use case going way
back to the beginning of slides where, you know, let's say it's a user uploading a
document.
Semantic chunking is probably going to be, at least right now, too slow, no matter
what approach you take.
But if it's like, again, if it's a back office flow, I would encourage everyone on
this call to not really like think about latency as a problem.
In fact, you should think about designing a process where you can effectively remove
latent latency as being consideration because it's really just a, it's kind of
like a counterproductive problem when you're trying to automate something that's
back office.
And it's better to, again, like think from first principles.
How can we design this process around the fact that there's going to be this
async processing and then we can control the variables and then just focus on
performance, performance, performance, because accuracy is a premium when you're
doing a systems of record rather than latency.
But that being said, like, I mean, cost definitely can be a factor here, but
that's where I would really encourage you to do model distillation.
Yeah, I think for a lot of different talks, it really has come down to this idea
that it really isn't just about whether something is fast or whether something is
good.
We really understand, like, what is your performance budget?
Right.
How much can you spend on the tokens versus the time and versus, you know,
inference and whatnot?
And, you know, it's always going to be like multiple degrees of freedom that we
explore.
Yeah.
As you know, it's not the case like rag is dead and long context is the winner.
Well, you know, things might take more money.
Is the recall worth the additional cost, worth the maintenance cost of doing your
own inference?
Those are the big things to think about.
Or like a compounder we'll see is people will use like a light, fast classifier
to like do the initial classification steps so they don't run semantic chunking
or don't run splitting on every document because it's expensive and slow.
And that's a very common pattern.
So like classification, much easier task in most cases, do a bunch of pass through
using faster, cheaper models that you've kind of like designed this process around
so that you don't have to like jam.
You don't think of it as like, okay, here's the total number of end documents that
we're going to process.
Now let me multiply that by the cost of doing semantic chunking and then conclusion
too expensive.
Instead, think through like, well, what can we change the process?
Can we do a pre-filtering step that's extremely cheap and then actually cut out
so that we only chunk the things where that matters?
That's like another very common pattern.
Yeah, I think segmentation and specialization will definitely be useful for
for all time, I think.
Yeah.
I think this question is mostly around like, how do you guys think about yourselves
relative to, you know, a business like Reducto?
Where I think most of what I've seen them do is around the PDF to like mark down
data output.
But yeah, I would love to hear a little bit more about how you guys think about your
approaches and how they differ.
Yeah, I mean, I think Reducto is a great team.
There's definitely some overlap at the end of the day, like doc and processing is a
very broad space.
I think the main kind of difference, at least what type tends to lead to us having
fairly different customers than in some cases is that we, I think while they focus
very heavily on like rag as a use case, so they tend to very much optimize their
system and their API around that problem.
We view more of the parsing as and chunking and all the things that we do to make this
work well as kind of like a means to an end in order to do very effective processing,
if that makes sense.
And so in practice, while again, there can be a lot of overlap there because it's all
still document processing.
We've really designed our product and our expertise and our capabilities around these
very complex multi-step processing of documents.
And so we tend to more work with companies that are doing these either like they're
either AI teams building these workflows around back office ingestion or they're
large enterprises doing that kind of processing or actually they're building like user
upload flows with processing invoices, order forms, et cetera.
It tends to our product tends to be like a bit of a better fit there, as opposed to, I
think, in Reducto because they focus so heavily on their parse API.
That's something that they do very well, even though I think in practice, we actually
do very similar things on the parsing.
We both use OCR and VLM to create a representation of the document.
We both do different kinds of chunking strategies and layout segmentation and like
section based chunking or semantic chunking, et cetera, to do all this focus a lot on
like high quality tables and figure detection.
So the problems end up being very similar, but then like where you throw those solutions
and invest ends up being a bit different, if that makes sense.
Yeah, it's a lot about like what does success look like in these cases?
For me, when I use something like DOS and Reducto, I just want the data.
Yes, exactly.
The invoices process is actually put back into the system.
You know, we believe that this result is fully accurate.
Yeah.
Or, and I think that's like the main difference, right?
So if like, if you're creating a, if you're doing a document conversion process, there
is actually in some ways a more objective measure of accuracy, right?
Because there's not, there's not two different ways in practice, like at the, like kind of
theoretical limit of accuracy to create a markdown representation of a document.
There are kind of like more objective, better and worse ways, where if you're dealing with
a system of record and you're a business and you process that system of record in a certain
way, then the accuracy is somewhat subjective to your process, right?
And so it's, it's again, the product needs to be heavily oriented around trying to evaluate
and measure and improve accuracy on my unique like schema and pipeline.
And I think that kind of leads to the difference there.
I guess to sort of think a little bit bigger on like, what are the things people are missing
these days?
You know, we've asked you a couple of questions, like, what is a question you feel like folks
are not thinking about these days when it comes to these like documentation pipelines?
Like, is there going to be, is it mostly around like, how do we train domain experts for like
different UIs?
Yeah, I'm curious if you're a little bit more about, you know, what are you asking?
I think it's, I think it's two things.
I think that at least of all the teams we've talked to, it's a lot of them, actually it's
three things.
With the domain expert one, I don't think it's that every team thinks about trying to
use like the domain expert in their industry, whether it's like the nurse, even if they're
like an AI team, they might not think, oh, we could actually put our nurses as part of
understanding this process and understanding the data and understanding the prompting.
I've only seen a subset of teams actually take that approach.
And when they do, it tends to be an extreme competitive advantage.
And so I think if you're like, what question are you not asking?
It's like, if you're an engineer and you're tasked with this kind of problem, like, you
know, your PM gave it to you and you're like, we got, you know, your top down CEO's like,
we got to start automating these documents and you don't feel like you actually understand
this process.
Someone on your team has to write if you're doing this currently.
And if you're in industry, someone understands this.
And so from the get go, figuring out how to loop in those people and make them a part
of it is actually very important.
And you should ask, like, do do I really know what's happening here?
The second piece somewhat related to it, I think a common pattern that I see is that
especially at like larger late stage tech companies that are spinning up these AI teams,
there is a bit of a inclination that the AI team wants to protect every product team
from thinking about these problems is one approach that we've seen where they sort of
centralize it and say anything that relates to like AI or docking processing, that's going
to like roll through for us.
What the problem there is, again, going back kind of relates to the first problem is that in a
lot of cases, it's actually probably those like product and operations teams that understand
the process a lot better.
And so instead, it's like, how can they leverage you, the AI team, to help them build this,
whether it's using tooling or internal or whatever it is, so that they are then empowered
to customize the process and tailor it to their use case, as opposed to making yourself,
the AI team, the blocker to getting anything done or changing anything here.
Because not only is that not effective from an organizational structure standpoint, it's
not actually going to lead to like the best outcomes.
And then the third piece is the...
Sorry, what was I going to say?
I think that...
There was one other one here.
Yeah, I think...
It's not about being the main experts.
Yeah.
Oh, it's the...
Oh yeah, trying to reorient the process.
So again, I think that a lot of folks, like what you're not asking, if you're tasked with
processing these documents, it is a valid question to ask, like, should we be automating
this? Because if you're operating in like an industry, like it's true that you probably
have to process these documents.
But if the specific flow today is maybe unnecessarily oriented around the fact that like,
this is just how we've been doing this operational process to get from the beginning.
And so now it's like, OK, hey, engineering team, automate this operational process.
I do think you should take a step back as engineers, maybe put your AI hat off for a
second and just think about operationally.
Is this the right way for us to structure our business such that this bottleneck even
happens? Is there a way that we can maybe push up the bottleneck because it actually
is going to allow us to clean the data a bit more and filter the problem?
Or is there a way to push it down so that there's like multiple levels of filtration
before it's actually getting to the point where we need to run, you know, generative
AI to like extract the data?
Like you really kind of want to take a step back and actually think about the end to end
process before you try and just like blindly automate.
And I think that that's actually at a meta level relates to like, let's say you're a
vertical team that's trying to reinvent the industry, like you're trying to build a new
startup and you want to change, automate all these workflows.
It's worth thinking through like, OK, yeah, maybe one option is we go to X, Y and Z
business. We tell them we're going to automate your workflow for blank.
We're going to automate your workflow for blank.
Maybe it's like actually you go to that team and say like you change their approach for
them. That's part of the service that you're actually providing and changing how they
think about. And you have that power because you're going to provide a bit of a software
and service model. So, yeah, just think of rethink the process.
Makes a lot of sense. I think a lot of these other questions are mostly around OCR in
general. But how have you guys thought about leveraging things like LLMs and traditional
OCR techniques? You know, I think one of the questions around like complex table
hierarchies, for example.
I mean, so we use both OCR and VLMs in order to parse a document.
So there's a lot of things that there's a lot of limitations that OCR has.
There's also limitations that VLMs have.
I think it can be tempting to think that you can just like throw a document into Gemini
Flash and just convert it to markdown representation.
But there's all kinds of issues that happen at the long tail of edge cases.
And so instead, we think of it kind of like a multi-step process where there's like a
layout step and you can run OCR on different sections, get the text and you can convert
like use VLMs for handling figures, use VLMs to repair certain types of tables.
It's at the end of the day, like in this where there's a lot of overlap with any kind
of like rag product is like you're trying to create the breast representation of a
document. And pure OCR is typically not enough.
Pure VLMs are at least right now, like not great for it.
But we've actually been over time relying more and more on like multimodal models to
actually process the document.
But yeah, it's like you kind of need to do both.
And it can be pretty complex to manage on yourself.
And that is one of the reasons why we see a lot of teams end up actually using our
product is that it abstracts all this away from them.
So they don't have to like think about it.
They just think, OK, here's parsing, here's extraction, here's splitting, here's
pipelining, et cetera. Here's evals.
This is the actual job to be done.
I don't want to think about like OCR or Flash, et cetera.
Makes sense with that.
I guess let's try to do some more live questions.
If you see in the in the bottom folder, not bottom folder, the bottom bar on Zoom, you
try to raise your hand. I know, Sergio, you had a question you wanted to ask.
Yes, thank you. In part, this has been asked for so when you say don't shoot for
under one hundred percent, then you end up omission to start.
This makes me thinking that if we think that the best way could be taking product
base point of view, which is what part asking the product side of asking the
customers what part of the automation could be your real pain point or something
that easier be a low hanging fruit or whatever and bringing the domain expert as
you like as the formal stakeholder deciding what parts of the automation is
most necessary now, thinking of starting that a long time so that we can promise
something sooner and then we go to something else later on.
Also, because down the road, we learn together that some parts of the process,
as you say, may change, may be no longer needed for whatever reason as it's
it's outdated or because it's going to be changing something like that.
So I think thinking in terms of product here could be paramount.
Yeah, no, I think I think you're exactly right.
So like something we see very often is especially a larger company.
They'll come to us and they'll be like, look, we're so excited to use you guys.
We have like 15 use cases and we want to like handle all these.
We've you extend as a way to centralize it.
And the first thing we'll say is like you really should not try and use us to
automate all 15 use cases at once.
You should actually identify what is the most important thing for the business or
product team right now.
So like you do want to think about ROI because at the end of the day, all of
this is an investment.
Like you're going to whether you use like a provider, whether you build everything
directly in house, no matter what you do, you are investing time as a business in
order to do this.
And there kind of has to be any measurable ROI.
And on top of that, there are among all these use cases that you as a business
might have just like you had to prioritize different features for your product.
You do have to identify like, well, which of these automations are actually like
realistic in the short term?
What can allow us to get the fastest path to something rolled out so that we can
again can deliver business value.
But then also there's less like friction to roll this out, less change management.
So the business as a whole, the product can get comfortable with this kind of
automation on an easier use case.
And then we can start to attack the other ones.
So it is it is kind of like a product question.
And that is why, you know, very often some of the people that we end up talking to
during the discovery process is a PM.
You know, it's like there there is like a management component.
You're trying to you are fundamentally changing the products, even if it's an
internal back office flow like that is still part of your end product in the
market. Right.
If you're a business doing this automation behind the scenes, if you change how you
do that, it will change how you provide service in that market.
So.
The next question, I think, from Sri Rang.
Thank you. I'm not going to put my camera on.
I had my.
To the to the extracted.
So I look like an inhuman chipmunk, actually.
Anyway, did you you mentioned that the client forums could have high degree of
variance in each hour.
So is that something that you kind of hinting at ontology build out in terms of
understanding the real data at the back end that and kind of map those to that?
That's my first question.
I'll slip in another one to love to know about the extraction classifiers that
you talk about.
Thanks.
Yeah.
So first question, I mean, so it's in the in that case of like the, you know, the
health care vertical AI, it's it's really like.
They they need to sort of build out this ontology, right?
They need to work with their customers in particular, in this case, like they're
in-house, like nursing and technician team to understand what are like what are in
all these documents?
Like if you if you have some generic, the concept of like a referral order package
in home health, what are all the potential documents that could be there?
Even ones we don't need just so we can have like an understanding of representation
of like what is the possible document set?
Like, what are you as a nurse when you get one of these packages and you have to
like transfer this system of record from like one doctor for this patient to your
incoming system?
How are you actually like thinking about it?
What are you implicitly doing that you don't actually even have a written down?
And that's like the the ontology piece, though, is more like what are, you know,
what are the specific terminologies, like how someone might actually refer to a
like a physician?
Because also in a lot of these referrals, you can have multiple physicians being
mentioned at different times.
But there is like a primary physician, like that is like a specific thing that they
need to figure out.
But it might not be referred to as primary physician.
So that is kind of like the ontology piece that they have to do.
And again, part of why a lot of teams actually work with us is that we free up
the time for them to focus on that.
That's like very specific to their domain, because all everything else is handled
for them with the tooling and the kind of the ways they can stitch this all
together so that they can really understand their data.
And then once you understand that ontology and the data, it's actually relatively
easy to kind of figure out how to automate there.
I think you also mentioned the classification in Copali.
So we actually we are very soon rolling out an update to our classifier that
utilizes Copali as part of a retrieval step, similar for like what we one of the
things that our customers often want is they want to do kind of like schema
mapping automatically.
So again, they do it somewhat manually right now, where they'll create all these
different extractors in our product.
And then they will maybe do a first step where they extract like provider and all
these different things.
And then they will map like provider, then extract this, this, this, this.
What they really want to be able to do is say like for this exact kind of document,
I just wanted to do this for this exact kind of document.
I want to do that.
And as part of the retrieval building that Copali is actually a component of that
because it's extremely good at this sort of like it of all the things it can do
really, really well.
It is this like the very solid differences between documents, like a BOL
versus proof of lading, which is like a BOL with like a signature.
It's like this kind of difference is easy to like assess, and then you can build
much more fine grain mapping.
That makes sense.
Do you guys by any chance, you also looked at multi-vector like a late
interaction with Maxim?
We have not yet.
No, I would love to.
I just heard a talk the other day where somebody was pumping this quite a bit
and a whole bunch of vector databases are now getting into multiple vectors,
late interaction, a little bit more work, but they were saying the accuracy was
a little 10% or 15% more.
Thank you.
I mean, I think that goes back to this idea that we have to have our own evals.
Right.
It might work 10% better on the Wikipedia question answering data set.
But yes, Elon, this gets into this almost like nearest neighbors on PDF
layouts.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
And I do think that that is sometimes the danger of like all the benchmarking is
that it can be very, it can lead to people potentially making snap decisions to try
and upgrade something when in practice might actually be better for what they're
trying to do.
And I mean, like one, I think a perfect example of this, Jason, we were talking
about this like the other day is like going back to sort of the retrieval stuff.
Like the fact that most of the coding agents ended up just using grep and everyone
was trying to optimize the like semantic retrieval as much as they could keep
climbing the, you know, climbing the Hill of like benchmarking results.
And then just turned out actually for what we're really trying to do, we
eval this end to end and figure out like what leads to the best outcome.
It's actually just giving the agent access to grab.
So I do.
Yeah.
That is, that really gets at the like, you have to think about it from the end,
both the eval, your specific step and the end to end all encompassing eval.
Like, did we get the outcome here on our specific use case and then work
backwards from there?
Yeah.
And I also call out, you know, maybe even a year ago, my belief was that if you
could figure out the success of every component, then like you kind of multiply
them together and you kind of know the end to end system, like now with this
agent work, that isn't really the case.
I have it right.
Like, um, a couple of weeks ago, Colin from augments had this talk and basically
said, you know, like we improved our like embedding search by N percent.
The end to end performance didn't change because the agent just tried two more
times.
Right.
So now like the metric isn't even like, did you get the answer correctly?
It's like, how many tries did it take for it to get done correctly?
And also does that matter?
Right.
In a zero latency, like, no latency concern setting, that's actually fine.
You can actually build a product.
Yeah.
Those are the kinds of things that now have really surprised me and changed how
I think about building out some of these agents.
Yeah, definitely.
Um, I mean, that also gets another thing too, is like there are, when you have
these agent flows, you introduce potential, like a lot of indeterminism
that's hard to sometimes reason about.
And I think it can be tempting to use like, uh, AI or like an LLM for like
every step of every flow, but there are a lot of cases, especially in document
processing, where if you can solve it with code, like, let's say you, you want
to do some kind of like extraction where if you actually just extract the component
parts and then use like, you know, math to get the inferred result, as opposed
to asking the model to infer the outcome as part of the extraction, then you
should, you should do the code-based approach, right?
Because then you can actually guarantee it's going to behave how you want.
Um, and yeah, so like making a trade-off of indeterminism versus
determinism is pretty important.
Beautiful.
I think that's basically a time.
Um, to everyone else who's still here, we will send some like study notes out as
well as any resources that Eli wants to share with you this slide, maybe a link to
extend.
But before we go, yeah, is there any like final message or, you know, how can we find
you if you want to reach out?
Well, you can, you can find me on Twitter at twitter.com, mebadjoe with an underscore,
because for some reason it was taken without an underscore, also on LinkedIn as
Eli Baggio.
Feel free to message me anytime or email me at Eli at extend.app.
Um, you can find our product at extend.ai.
Um, would love to keep chatting this.
I mean, we, this is all we do every single day is kind of live and read docking
processing.
We sort of refer us, refer to ourselves as your docking processing team, um, and
just love just thinking through the problems, really interesting stuff.
One of the most interesting things about working on docking processing is just how
much you learn about every industry.
Um, it's like very, very fun.
Um, so yeah, always excited to chat.
Yeah.
Now I know who to ask for when I have issues with the insurance claims.
I'll just send you instead.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Eli, I'm about to have everyone.
Thank you so much for sharing your knowledge.
