So everyone says RAG is dead.
That's definitely not true.
It turns out the R in RAG stands for retrieval and I think there's been very few retrieval
experts willing to talk about this kind of stuff, mostly because the real ones are tend
to just be building things.
You know, the recommendations is some people, like on Netflix, they're just at Netflix,
you know, working on these systems and not really thinking about writing blog posts on
how to fine tune embedding models or what a user interaction is.
And for the most part, the generation in RAG, that's now going to be delegated to these
foundational models, right?
Like 03, you're not going to put out compete 03 reasoning if you need any of these things.
And so retrieval is actually the only thing you have control over.
And this is why I'm really excited to bring in today's guest, Hamish.
He's the founder of Search IO.
He's also a fellow physicist and now he's the VP of AI at Algolia.
And you know, I think he's basically spent over a decade turning, you know, information
retrieval log in it and to just lift in these, you know, search results.
I'm really excited to have you go over some of the results you've seen and how you think
about building things in an agentic way and how we can apply this information to how we
again just improve the R in RAG.
So yeah, Hamish, take it away.
All right, cool.
Good to be here.
So as everyone heard, my name's Hamish and I'm here to talk about self-improving data
driven feedback loops.
So internally we call them learning loops, but I'm going to cover a lot of ground today
and give you a bit of a background in terms of how we think about things.
So a little bit about me.
You heard background in physics used to design lasers, which is a little bit of a different
world to search, but I've been in and around data and search for about 10 years now.
I designed and built multiple search engines, so I'm kind of familiar with this space.
So the whole RAG and agents has been a very interesting evolution for me.
Search I was acquired by Algolia and so I'm now at Algolia leading up AI.
So today I want to cover a little bit of a background on Algolia because I think it'll
give people context into why, you know, we think about the world a little bit differently
to others talk about RAG and agents, how we think about that solving the iron rag is
Jason mentioned.
And then a couple of demos, the Algolia query language, which is kind of an internal thing
at the moment, but may end up being externalized.
And then how we use that for things like dynamic query planning and learning loops.
So I'm not sure how many people in this talk are familiar with Algolia, but if you want
to get some background in terms of the company, I think the best way to do it is the numbers.
And we do about 5 billion queries a day.
We collect about a billion events a day.
So things like clicks and purchases, we get a lot of signal back in terms of search and
we use that to help optimize search.
And so a lot of applications like e-commerce, for instance, things like purchases are very
useful to help you automatically tune search to work better.
So we also, we do about 10 billion indexing events a day.
And I think a couple of the other interesting things on here, we do over 30,000 AI model
inferences per second.
That might actually be higher now.
I'm not sure, but that was the last number that I had internally was what we were doing.
And we support over 100 data centers and 1500 clusters.
And so the main takeaway from that is that your cost to put code in production is quite
high.
If you have 1500 clusters, then your considerations are a little bit different to what most people
are talking about when they think about prototyping something like search or RAG.
And the hard truth behind that is that what is cool, and we see a lot of cool things on
X and everywhere else, but they just don't work at scale.
And you have to think about things in very different ways to make them work at our scale.
So some other notables, I think one of the interesting things, which was the historical
Algolia did relevance differently and used a tiebreak relevance, which is different to
the Lucene and the Vespa families of the world that use things like BM25.
Internally, we just don't see BM25 as competitive at all.
And there's a lot of reasons for that, but it's just not, it's quite interesting to see
how well regarded it is in the community at the moment, because we just don't see it as
a great technique.
We use neural hashes for vector search, which is a binary based approach.
And it's still better than all of the other methods that we've seen out there today in
terms of trade-offs, but we're a little bit opinionated there because we've spent a lot
of time on the technology, a lot of time tuning it, and we understand it deeply.
So that's quite opinionated, but it's worked well.
And then some other interesting things, we have five nines SLA with a thousand times payback
on a lot of contracts.
So when you're thinking about the downtime that you're allowed to have, it's very small.
It's in the order of a few seconds a month, I think about 20 seconds a month or something
like that.
And when you move to four nines, you're talking about minutes of downtime a month, which for
some of our customers, that is hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars that they
would lose if we were down.
So this is a really big consideration for us.
And again, that's why we pay such a high price for getting things like code deployment into
production.
And so some other notables there, we do our own in-house DNS.
We have our own ways to isolate data and also to isolate failure and other things.
We run private data centers and all three public clouds.
So we've got a lot of different compute primitives to manage.
So that work kind of a little bit differently.
And from an AI perspective, my team has five PhDs training, NLMs, VLMs, and a bunch of
other proprietary models.
There's others in-house at Algolier as well.
So not just me.
So there's probably a bunch more PhDs, definitely a lot more in AI and ML.
And we also have extensive benchmarking and eval capabilities.
So one of the ones that I will give a background on shortly, which is the buy encoders.
We generally, if a new model comes available publicly, we'll have it in our benchmarks
within a couple of hours typically.
So these are some of the models that are used by Algolier.
And I think I put this in because I think it highlights that search is not a singular
problem.
I think there's a group of people that think you're just going to plug in vector search,
and suddenly search is going to work.
And the reality is quite different.
The reality is there's a lot of different techniques that need to be used and they need
to be combined in a way that they work together to produce a better outcome.
And so that ends up becoming a little bit more like LEGO than what people most might
think.
And it's not a single system, but it's a multi-system that you need to manage.
So I mentioned benchmarks before.
Buy encoders is one example where we have a benchmark internally.
And this benchmark has over 50 datasets that are used for the benchmark.
So we have things like MTEB.
We don't really care about MTEB, but we use it to just kind of have a second validation
that we're not breaking the generalization of models and that they kind of have a generalized
understanding.
But for the most part, we have datasets around the use cases that our customers support.
And so some of these here are Econ-focused, but we also have a bunch of other use cases.
And so we run all these models through.
We know where they're good, where they're not good.
And then immediately when new models come up, we put them straight into this list and
we can kind of see which ones are worth using, building upon, who's going to be competitive,
et cetera.
But we have really good model capabilities internally as the TLDR.
So moving on to RAG and agents and how we think about that world.
I think very simply we think about it as, and Jason mentioned this in the intro, you
are probably not going to build a better 03.
It's just the way it is.
I mean, maybe there's people in this audience that can do that, but it's probably our only
that it's probably unlikely.
So the generative side, we kind of, we think about outsourcing that we partner, et cetera.
In the tooling capacity, we think about a bunch of different tools that we would use
internally.
But the most important one of those for things like grounding and getting real-time
information.
And obviously we're a search company, so it's a little bit of a self-fulfilling prophecy,
but memory and retrieval is for us is the biggest problem.
And here we've mentioned that you can do things like reading files.
You can do grab, you can use databases, you can public search, but private search data
makes up around, I think about 95% of all data and about 80% of that is unstructured.
So when you look at the, probably the best tool in the, here private search indexes are
extremely valuable for retrieval, augmented generation.
And so that's one of the focuses for us.
Solving the R in RAG and how we think about that.
No silver bullets, multiple systems, multiple APIs.
And it's not, there's not one thing that is going to take you from being okay to great.
There's, it's an ensemble of different techniques that you need to put together in different
ways to get the outcome.
And this can even be different on a query by query basis.
And so really the only way to figure that out and optimize is to iterate faster.
And so internally, one of our biggest focuses is how do we go faster?
And so speeding up the loop is one of the things that I think about all the time.
And interestingly, seeing Andres talk the other day, he talked about this in a human
capacity, when you're looking about AI verifiable AI loops, he talked about how you want to keep
AI on a tight leash.
So you want to kind of constrain what AI is doing because that gives you a better chance
of success.
And then you want a really fast verification loop.
And so when I saw this, I kind of smiled because it's very similar to how we think about
creating these learning loops to improve retrieval.
And so I'm going to take you through how we approach that.
So firstly, composability, we want to test new ideas in production in seconds.
And we want to do that without any deployments.
So that kind of sounds funny.
How do you test in production without doing any deployments?
But that's really thinking about how do you make everything that you do composable so you can just
define a query, which would be similar to how you think about SQL.
You can send a query and run totally different functionality, but you don't have to actually
ship new database features to do that.
You're just composing the pieces that you have in different ways.
And so that's useful because it constrains the system.
Unlike code, where you can do anything.
If you're looking at a composable system, you have a limited surface area of things
that are possible, but then they can be combined in almost an unlimited number of ways.
And so we've seen that this has enabled us to start decoupling the feature teams from
the production loop and the production loop is much slower.
And so that's been useful.
And then we also have non-engineers who are able to experiment and validate ideas.
And so to give an example, we've had both CSMs, demo engineers, and product managers
all jump into this world and being able to change the algorithm and see what it would do.
And then use that to recommend to engineering that they make changes.
So that's the part of the AI part of the loop in this case, but it's human.
And then you have the validation part, which is the simulation.
And for us, we do, it's very similar to back testing in finance.
We want to take a historical set of queries.
We want to replay them.
We want to see how we improve things or have we made them worse.
And we can also do that with synthetic data.
So if we don't have any historical performance data, we can use synthetic
data like LLM judgments to backfill that.
And so that becomes the validation part of the loop.
And when you put that together, you have the ability to create new algorithms in seconds,
validate them, and make sure that they are going to give you an improvement in minutes.
And then you can put that loop into action and run it 24 seven while you're asleep.
And so we haven't quite got there to the last bit,
but that's what we're working towards at the moment.
So this is kind of just a diagram simply showing the flow,
but humans can drive this with a goal.
And then you update the workflow, which is basically an internal composable query language.
You back test it.
If it's worse, you just try again.
If it's better, it goes into the production loop.
And so if you look at the actual tooling that we use internally for this,
we have, there's four components to it.
Today, I'm going to talk about, I'll show you a demo, I mean, of workflows,
which is the top part.
How do you compose new algorithms?
And then I'm going to show a little bit around the simulation,
which is how do you run back tests to validate that the idea is good.
And these are the two important parts of the loop.
So demo time.
I'll explain this a little bit.
So this is an internal UI for us that we use.
Our staff can come in here and play around.
On the left, you have our internal query language that we can use.
And so in this case, it's just running a simple keyword request.
Over here, you can kind of play around with the results.
So if I run a request for say iPhone, I get these results.
There's some weird results in the list.
This is a demo set, so don't worry too much about that.
But also it is actually representative of e-commerce,
where people will say, they'll mention the word iPhone
in the description or something.
And so you end up with irrelevant results, but they match on keywords.
And you can play around with different things here.
So if I showed you a set of vector results, for instance,
on the left is a vector request that's being made.
And on the right, you can see for the same query iPhone,
you're actually getting a lot better results for iPhone.
And so in some cases, vector search works better.
In some cases, it works worse than keyword, but we can look at both of those.
And then we can also look at hybrid combinations as well.
So in here, we've got this query language.
We can define what we want it to do.
We can edit that if we want.
But one of the nice things is we can come in here and click on this simulate tab.
And then I can give this, this is a keyword base.
I can hit start.
And then what this will do is it will take the workflow that we've got over here
and it will start running a back test to try to validate
how well does this actually work.
And so this will run along the background.
And while that's running, I'll come back to the search tab here.
And then I'll show you some other things that you can do.
And so this is a secondary example that is extending
keyword requests to include signals from a feature store.
And so this part here is actually saying we're going to go and grab information
from a feature store and we're going to pull that back into the query.
So in this case, we're looking for information that for this particular query,
records have been clicked on before.
What records have been converted before.
And then we also have a ranking efficiency, which is a metric that we calculate
out internally to counteract position bias.
And so we're taking those signals and then we're adding a new signal,
which is a weighted algorithm here, which is basically just a weighted sum.
And so we're creating our own ranking formula.
And then we're using the rank function here to basically say,
go and reorder those results by my rank.
And so if we come back in and we run a search for iPhone,
we'll see that we've actually got better results here than
what we had for a pure keyword search.
And so looking at the signal table and so the signals,
when we think about creating signals, it's essentially an input to what you may use
for ranking or re-ranking.
And so in this case, we pulled the click data and we created a column called clicks.
So that's a signal.
We did the same thing for conversions with the same thing for ranking efficiency.
And then in this last piece here, we created our own ranking formula
that combines these together.
And then we ordered the results by our ranking formula.
And so this is a simple example.
Your ranking formula may be a learn to rank model or something more advanced,
but the key idea here is that you can pull these signals in
and you can create your own custom ranking.
And then you can see how will that actually work in practice.
And so if I come in here, let me refresh this.
We should be seeing, yeah, okay.
Sorry, these are segmented by the base workflow,
which is why it needs a hit show all.
But so for the previous one here, we've got now got an ndcg at 10
and we've got a recall at 10.
So we've got a measurement now to see over thousands of queries.
You know, it took a minute or so, but now we have a measure of how good that base keyword was.
And then we can take this one and so the keyword, let's call it keyword my rank.
And then we'll start that one off too.
And so now we're going to see we've added data from a feature store
and then we're adding that into the ranking function.
And we're going to see if it actually outperforms the original keyword query.
So there's a lot, a lot that you can do here.
And I think it's, it's, I'm only going to show a very limited set of functionality today
because it's, there's, there's almost too much to share,
but there's built-in documentation in here.
And if a team internally has a new API, they can add in a new function.
So when we see things like this sort of keyword request, that internally is wrapping an API,
but it means that the teams that are building features on top of all our internal functionality,
they don't need to know how all the internals work.
They can just use the functionality and then put it together in different ways.
So another simple example here, and this example is just using the, the re-ranking again,
it's going to a feature store here, which is, is the, this here.
It's using the lower bound confidence of what we think the ranking efficiency should be.
It's creating a signal here.
So if we run a search again, you should see, you should see the, the, the, the, the, the,
the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,
by the signal.
So this is, this is similar to the previous one, but instead of using clicks and conversions,
it's just using ranking efficiency.
So again, we've seen the previous one is actually completed, but I'll keep one off here.
This is keyword and ranking efficiency.
I'll kick that off as well, but we can see that we've, we've now evaluated two algorithms
in a couple of minutes.
And this, the second one that we ran here, we had a pretty big leap in performance.
We increased recall massively 47 to 72, and we increased the, the ranking score as well,
which is great.
And so this is kind of what at the moment engineers can do internally.
Product people, CSMs, they can come in and play around with the algorithms,
but eventually we want AI to write these workflows for us.
And so this is why we're kind of preparing our own documentation and our own language
to, for that to happen.
So coming back to these examples, I will pull a hybrid example.
And so hybrid by hybrid, I mean, this is running both a keyword and a vector request,
and then putting the results back together.
This is also doing things like creating signals.
One of the interesting things people might see this here, we've got a parallel.
And so if you do this in a, in a workflow, it will go and run all of those requests in
parallel and they will wait for them to complete.
And before it continues on in the flow.
So you can do a lot of performance optimization in here.
And you'll typically see this with not just two things, but it might be going out to the
feature store to get information as well, running multiple requests.
Could be running recommendations or whatever, and pulls that information back in.
You have a concept of annotations and so an annotation, and you might see it in the code
here is basically something that you want to log.
So if you want to log something and this goes into BigQuery behind the scenes for us,
anything that you want to log, you can log.
So if you have some algorithm change and you want to mark that in the logs, you can
do that.
And the signal table is also there, but that's taking in all of the scores that are relevant
to ranking.
And that also gets recorded into BigQuery.
So if somebody's coming along to look into your new algorithm, they actually have access
to all of these things that have been logged on all the historical queries as well.
So this is an example of a hybrid key and vector.
It's doing RRF.
Here's alpha is 0.2.
Maybe you want to change that to 0.6 and see what difference it makes.
And you'll see that this pulls in more of the vector results and pushes down more of
the keyword.
And so we see an increase in the quality of the result here, but that just happens to
be for this particular query, but it might be different for others.
And so that's why, of course, you want to use the Simulate tab.
The other one's finished now.
And again, we can see this is actually another improvement.
We've increased both the NDCC and recall again.
But I won't keep doing simulations.
You kind of get the point that you make a change and you can validate it in minutes.
And just to reiterate, this is running in production.
So if I change this query language that works on the left and I run it, that is injecting
that request into production clusters and running the algorithm that I've chosen in
production and then returning the results to me.
So this is not a staging or anything else.
This is actually running on production clusters.
So I'll move on from algorithms to RAG because I think it's useful to see how you can set
this up in something like RAG.
Well, that's not going to be useful because it's an empty query, but let's try something like
on to the campaign.
Then we'll run a more complex one there because an empty one doesn't make a lot of sense.
This looks a bit janky the way that this is done in the UI here by doing the multi-line approach,
but you can pull these in from index settings.
And so you can see other index settings here that are being pulled in from config.
But in this case, we're writing it actually into the workflow because we think it's more
useful so you can see what's going on.
We're trying to tell the model that we're staff member at e-commerce.
We're putting the query into the prompt.
And then we've got a prompt template here, so we're injecting the results that we get
back from the query.
In this case, it's a vector search.
And then we're going to put those into the prompt and then we're going to send the prompt
to GBT-40-mini and look at the response that comes back.
And that's what we see here.
And so in this case, you're going to get a response back, you know, camping in Yosemite
during the winter.
Incredible experience.
I can vouch for that, but yeah, it can be very, very cold.
And so this is telling you what things you should buy.
You can look down at the bottom and you can see, again, we still have annotations.
So we added things like the prompt templates in.
You don't have to do that.
And we also can look at the raw results.
And so these are the raw results that come back from the vector search.
And you can see that they're different to the ones that are being recommended by GenAI.
And GenAI has looked over the results and picked these ones are the ones that are important
to answer the query.
And so that's a simple example of how you can take a vector search in RAG and then display
that to see how that would work.
Eventually, we don't have this today, but we want to get to the point where the simulations
can also do evals for generated responses.
And we're not at that point today, but we're working on it.
And I think that's quite interesting.
And then the last example that I wanted to show quickly was rewriting a query.
And so this is kind of, again, it's a little bit more verbose than what it needs to be.
But we're taking an input request and then we're saying, you know, you're a staff member.
If it gets zero results, which in this case it doesn't, but say it got zero results,
then we want to rewrite this query.
And then we put the query in and then we ask GPT-40 Mini to rewrite the query.
And so in this case, you can do things.
My example here is iPhone for my friend.
And you can run that query and see what would have actually happened.
And in here, this is the rewritten query.
So it's taken iPhone for my grandma and then it's changed that query to smartphone for the elderly.
And then it's running a request on smartphone for the elderly.
So this is just kind of example of things that you can do.
Again, you may take one query and then say, break it into four or five more queries.
And then you can run them all in parallel, for example, and then pull them back together
and combine them.
A lot of things that you can do.
But I think this probably gives an idea of what is possible and what we're working towards.
And so I would conclude by coming back to the slides here.
And noting that we've got to the point where we can experiment in real time, in production,
with production data.
We can validate if changes that we make are better.
And we can do that in minutes, which is the goal of the fast verification.
We have dynamic query planning.
I didn't show too much of that today, but you can do things like,
you can increase the weight of vector results if historically keyword results have been poorly
performing for that query, for instance.
And there's a lot of different things that you can do.
And so we've got learning loops now, operational and running in production, which is fantastic.
And in future, we're moving towards gen AI writing our algorithms.
And that is truly getting to the point where we want to wake up the next day.
We want to see that agents have written dozens of new search algorithms and they've found
interesting new ways to do things that have been successful.
And then we've put those into tests and we've already collected data and it's all happened
while we slept.
And then lastly, we're moving towards adding agents and distinct tooling capability in workflows
so that you can connect to an external system.
So if you have an external tool or an external MCP server or something like that, you can pull
that directly into workflow and then use that with your Algolia retrieval.
That is all I have to run through.
I hope it was useful and ready to take questions.
Yeah, we've actually had some very similar things at Stitch Fix, but there is where I wish
the algorithms existed back then because I would just get merchandising or someone coming
in and saying, hey, can you help me run a simulation to figure out if we changed our
P sale function to optimize for margin instead of click through rate?
This is the kind of stuff that would be super cool to get a Slack message that says,
this is working, this isn't working.
And I really love this.
I think one of the things I talk a lot about in the newsletter is this idea of focusing
on leading metrics versus lagging metrics.
Everyone comes in and they say, Jason, can you make the AI better?
In the same way, when you come to a personal trainer, you ask, can I lose weight?
But the only thing that will impact that is how much you eat and how much you work out.
I left a comment in the chat that I was like, at the companies I worked with the first two months,
we'll be lucky if we get 10 experiments out a week.
That's a gold star.
And just being able to kick these things off really quickly, I think, is something that
researchers are very familiar with, but I think engineers think less of this
experimentation work with Vilela and mostly just like, is the feature built or not?
Yes, I agree.
That's the shift I'm seeing also at Algolia since joining.
I think Algolia was more, historically came from this control world where they wanted to give
engineers, you can control everything.
So you have this real deterministic outcome.
And then as AI and ML has just perforated everything, you can't do that anymore because
it's beyond the capability of our customers to say, this is how I want the system to work.
It's too complicated.
And so you need to start thinking about experimentations and how do you speed that up?
And it is particularly challenging for us with 1,500 production clusters.
It gets a lot harder to do.
Yeah.
Yeah, let me just take a look at the questions.
For anyone else, feel free to just look at the slider link we shared in the chat and then
you can just ask questions and upload questions there.
I think a lot of folks actually had a few questions on your thoughts on the text ranking
stuff. The first question says, could you please share more about your perspective that
BM25 is not competitive?
What is the broader AI community missing?
I think it depends on the use case.
So if you're matching really long queries with really long documents, then it makes more
sense because it's just you're doing a statistical keyword bag of words match and it kind of
corrects for some of the inconsistencies in document length and things like that.
But at the heart, it's nearly a 50 year old metric.
I think it's from the 80s, I believe originally.
And it doesn't take into account things like sequences.
In e-commerce, there's always the example shirt dress versus dress shirt.
BM25, they're the same thing.
It doesn't have any distinction.
There's no...
BM25F changed it a bit because you've got field weights, but by default, if you don't
have field weights and you have data with lots of different fields with some more useful,
that's different.
It's an averaging approach over a lot of information.
And so for a lot of things where you want more precision, you would prefer to have a
max match.
So if you have multiple matches in a document, you would like to see the fragment that has
a better match, whereas it kind of averages everything.
So there's a bunch of reasons.
Yes, not because...
Yes, not as a great example.
Yes.
Yeah, especially because I think when we move into this conversational form of search, these
are the kind of things that get really complex.
I think at Stitch
Floral.
Yes.
Do we need to remove florality as a property?
Maybe we can do this in the embeddings by doing some arithmetic, but it doesn't improve there.
I will say one thing, which is in terms of the distribution, BM25 is very useful if the
person who is searching this document was the creator of the document.
If I am the programmer and I want to search code, very useful.
If I am a speaker and I'm searching previous transcripts, very useful.
But in many, many cases, that is not what's actually happening.
If I'm searching over other YouTube videos, then I might actually search forests and mean
trees.
And those are some good examples there.
Yep.
Yeah, you're right.
And that's why I did say it's use case dependent, and that's very true.
Yeah.
We're also curious to hear more about this tie break text relevance.
I've never actually heard of that before.
I'm curious if you could describe a little bit of what that actually is.
Yeah, it's interesting, but it's one of the things that made Argolea grow really, really fast.
And I think a lot of search systems, they were asking you to wait all your fields and figure out
do the tokenization.
How do you do matches across multiple fields?
You know, all these kinds of things that are, if you want to configure a search engine and
you understand search, you can do that.
But for the average customer, they didn't have that capability.
They just want search to work.
And so the tie breaker was really a way to simplify that approach and say, you know, to
the user, this is more important than this is more important than this, than this, than this.
And it basically doesn't or sort order based on the things that you mark as most important,
which in a lot of cases gets you a long way there.
And then there's a lot of tricks behind the scenes.
It's kind of, it's funny for me being acquired by Argolea because we, you know, prior to
being acquired by Argolea, we would compete against Argolea.
And I remember in the early days, some of the competition against Argolea, we just couldn't
figure out why they were beating us in certain cases.
And it was really frustrating that this sort of simplistic approach was working so well.
But there's a lot of sort of tricks behind the scenes that are not evident that Argolea has
figured out over the years, just because there's so much data and scale.
It's been able to do that.
Yeah.
So it comes across as simple, but a lot of others have copied this as well.
And so, you know, you've got Millisearch and others have copied what Argolea did.
And the other reason that it's quite useful is that it means that you can basically at index time,
you can do a lot of the work on pre-ordering the data.
And so if you want to answer large, like over large data sets in single digit milliseconds,
it is easily the best way to do it because you're not doing the work at query time.
You're doing the work of the sorting at index time.
But that has other disadvantages for obvious.
I've seen a lot of different like vertical rag SaaS companies, I guess,
require a lot of like daytime filtering or like, you know, I think in legal context,
there's been a lot of crews are just like, who modified this last?
Or, you know, who is responsible for making these changes or who's the owner of these projects?
And show me all the documents that I've been modifying the past like three days.
Is my understanding that like, if we can just encode sort of the distribution of
metadata that we want to further against, this will allow us to
define the weights of those filter boosts better?
You can, although Tyebrick's thinking more about the text relevance
Got it.
And some of the ranking, like it's also the scoring based ranking, not so much for
filtering. But we have a lot of things internally to automatically inject filters
and things like that based on context.
Do you guys do a lot of synthetic data generation in terms of like computing things like evals?
For NDCG and for recall, these are probably just from collect data in the past, but
I'm curious, I'll be with less of that impressions data.
Yeah, that it is a really good question because it's actually for recall clickstream data is not
that useful. And it is, but it's not in the sense that say if you have clickstream data from
keyword searches, and then you bring in vector search, none of the you'll have no data on the
results that the vector search is bringing in because they've never appeared in the clickstream
and so by default, you will see that you have not improved recall at all, but in actual fact,
you have. And so we typically, if we're looking at ranking, we try to use clickstream. If we're
looking at recall, we try to pull in LLM judgments for all of the things that are in the top sets
for all of the different things you're comparing, because then you can actually say I've looked at
all of the things bought back by these different algorithms and I've judged them.
And I've judged them and then you can get a more accurate measure on recall. So yeah, we do a lot of
LLM judgments and we do a lot of synthetic data generation, particularly for things like model
training. And so we'll do things like we have our own data, but then we'll augment that with
translations or we'll make subtle changes. And we do things to create mass training sets for LLMs.
So I'm actually about to do a project where we do a lot of these LLM judgments to
improve relevancy. Do you have any quick tips or gotchas that you could...
Yeah, that's a great question. I think the main one is we've found that the accuracy,
if you're doing a binary judgment, is really high, like something like 97%. The accuracy,
if you do say a four graded relevance, is like 60%. And so depending, I mean, others might have
been able to get consistently higher, but across the data sets that we use for benchmarking,
we have not been able to get that up significantly. I think the synthetic LLM judgments,
when you're really looking at gray area relevance, you can't rely on that. And some of the mistakes
that they make in that can be pretty extreme. And so I'd love other people to tell me that we
can solve. And if you can please reach out and tell me. But at the moment, no, I think stick to
binary judgments and then figure out how to do this sort of graded relevance some other way.
Yeah, I've definitely heard the same thing. I think in the past, we used to be able to use the
logits. But now that we have a lot of grading systems, use chain of thought, it's harder to
control that more. Are you guys leaning towards more cheaper models, higher volume of data,
or is it actually like, you know, more expensive models with less volume, or even just more
tons of models and more volume because it's actually worth it? Another good question,
we've gone bigger models. We used to do smaller ones because we're like, how do we make this
cost equation at scale? And then we started to go to bigger models. And so now we use,
for things like embeddings, we use models around five or 600 million parameters. And reason being
that you can capture more context across multiple fields. And so you get better results. You know,
people there's this debate around multi vector representation, single vector representation.
If you go to much bigger models, you can get single vector representations that are actually
pretty good. And so in a trade off sense, that kind of works. And then the other thing is that
we've found that you can, we have a global caching CDN on top of our inference network.
So if different customers run the same inference for the same query, we don't calculate it twice.
We already have it, so have it straight from CDN. And so I think at the moment around 93%
of embedding requests for Algolia come from cache. Wow. That's actually really surprising.
Yeah. We didn't know what it would be, but once we saw what the numbers were like, we thought,
okay, well now we're confident that we should go to bigger models because the amortization of the
caching now makes that make a lot more sense. And then I guess to add onto that, it was a model size
for the LLM judges. Is that sort of the same story as well? We're willing to use like an O3
to do the LLM judge rather than, you know, borrow many because the quality is just so much better
and it's a one-time cost. It's interesting. And we probably should retry this with something like
O3 for the graded relevance, because I think you can cheaper model for binary relevance for sure,
and go faster. We would have been willing to pay for graded relevance, pay more, but at the time,
it didn't work, but we haven't gone to some of the new models and retried that, I don't believe. So
we should do that because that might be the thing that gets you to a graded relevance that
is actually useful. I see. And the graded relevance is good because that quality of data
can improve the ranking models just like way more than any binary task. Right? Yeah. Yeah, that's
right. I mean, you think you're breaking retrieval and ranking into two discrete problems really
helps with the retrieval because it's kind of binary recall. But for ranking, ranking is a lot
harder. But you know, it's interesting because when you do things like generative apps,
I think it comes to me, it was Joe from VASPA was talking about data going slower. So previously,
you wanted this high precision users will only look at one or two results. So you have to get
the ranking perfect. Whereas now we're moving into a world where we're more, we'll take 50 results
because we just want more information for context. But we don't mind if we get it slower. So recall
is now probably more important for things like RAG than what the precedents in the past. So it's
kind of this interesting trade off there. I see because I noticed in your experimentation that
there was no latency column. Usually when I think about e-commerce settings, it's like, well,
like every 100 milliseconds is 1% revenues. I don't care if the recall is 20% or if it's twice
as slow. It's generally saying that customers are getting more familiar with higher latency,
or less sensitive to higher latency. I think that they're definitely less if you're doing a RAG style
and a lot more value back, then you're willing to wait. Searching for iPhone, you want it right
there right now. And so there are two very different modalities. And I think you got a kind of plan
for them both differently. I see. I see. This is interesting. I guess the one question I ask
everyone at the end is just, what is a question you think practitioners are not asking, but they
should? I wish you'd told me this before. I don't know. Off the top of my head, I'm not sure. But
some of the questions you asked were actually really good ones for people to think about.
Everything in search is trade off. And so that's probably the question is, have you got the trade
off right? And that governs everything we do. Because yes, we can do better. But I had this
discussion with a customer and they said, but why can't you run generative on every one of our
queries? And I said, are you willing to pay a thousand times more than what you pay today?
And they just looked at me like I was crazy. And so of course we won't. And I said, well,
we're not going to do it because that's the reality. If you need to get a margin on it.
And so it's all trade offs. And I think a lot of people, they don't think about that.
You see people experiment and they're doing the latest greatest thing. That's cool. But
does it actually work? Will it be cost effective? Can you scale it? Is each piece in the puzzle
good enough? Can you do it cheaper, faster, whatever?
Luke Gromen That makes a lot of sense. I think,
yeah, I think oftentimes when companies reach out to me and they say like, can you make the AI better,
it's always a matter of me pushing them to commit to a budget. It's like, well, yes,
you can use these 10 techniques to make your recall go up 9%. But it's 9% worth the cost of
ownership is 9% worth the latency hit is 9% worth the maintenance complexity knowing that
the next model might just be able to use your tools to get the job done.
Jason Vale And how do they respond out of interest?
Cause I think that's a...
Luke Gromen I think they really sit down and have to
think about it. You know, like some people will come to me and they say, hey, Jason,
four oh is great, but we kind of want to do our own inference. How much do you think that's going
to cost and say, well, your opening eye bill is $10,000 a month. You can go to $4,000 a month if
you hire an engineer for $500,000 a year. And then they realize, okay, like we really need to think
on a bigger scale. And you know, when the next model has 10 times more context, what do you do?
Jason Vale Right.
Luke Gromen I think people are much more open to thinking
about it, but it takes them a long time to come back with an answer. I have another example at
Stitch Fix where we had this knob on diversity. And people at the company said, oh, we want more
diverse things because more diversity will show our customers that we have more inventory. And
my first question is like, how much money are you willing to lose? Right. Like I understand that
we're recommending a lot of white t-shirts and black pants because that's what generates revenue.
And it turns this diversity higher. Are you willing to lose $50 million because this is
a positioning marketing investment? Then all of a sudden that conversation becomes more difficult.
Jason Vale But I'm sorry, same time. Exactly. Yeah, very interesting.
Luke Gromen Yeah, I think a lot of it really is like there is a budget and some part of that
budget actually is a dollar amount. And can we have a conversation about that?
Jason Vale Yeah, and it's interesting in industries like e-commerce as well, where the
margins can be so small that the incremental gains of using really advanced stuff are often
not worth it, which is kind of interesting. I'd love to have people be able to set a budget on
this is how much we want to spend per query. And then we just do as much as we can because
there's use cases where it is worth spending that extra money and there's use tests where
it's just not worth it to them. But it's very hard to communicate that in market because you
have people look at you search and say, you know, oh, it's crap. And it's like, yeah, but you don't
want to pay for the smart stuff. So that's what you get. Not that we're crap. It's just because
that's within the bounds of the constraints you're giving us. That's what you get.
Luke Gromen Totally. I think I've mostly thought about this in terms of like dollars per page,
per PDF. You know, it's like if you're making investment decisions, maybe you're willing to
pay a dollar per page. You're processing financial reports. But if you're doing like a rag up,
like a personal assistant, maybe I don't want to pay a dollar per email. Yeah,
because if the sales email, I'm willing to pay $30 for a good sales email, because if it doubles
my conversion rate on $100,000 contracts, I think those conversations are pretty eye opening for a
lot of folks who, again, I think come from the engineering world and not the research quantitative

Sanyam Bhutani Totally. And that's my whole day is dealing with trade offs like that. And that
are not the things that people think about. It's not about making it the best. It's all the other
things.
Luke Gromen Yeah. If I could have one request, I would love to see Algollia come up with a blog
post that talks about chat bot latency and conversion. We've seen thousands of blog posts
on ecommerce where it's like, I think one time we introduced caching as districts,
cut three milliseconds, and it was 1% revenue gain.
Sanyam Bhutani Yes, they're reconsidering.
Luke Gromen But what does that look like for, you know,
using a reasoning model versus the non reasoning model? Like, I would be surprised if the reasoning
model is like, 5% better. But the latency cost is probably not worth it. But I would love to see
that research. And I don't think anyone is really in a world where they can measure that. Yeah.
Sanyam Bhutani Yeah, we should look at it. I don't think we know either, honestly, I think
hearing people debate about this stuff entirely, but we should look at it.
Luke Gromen Yeah, because we're going from like 100 milliseconds to like seven.
Sanyam Bhutani And that the thing for me is you not only
spending a lot more, but you have to you have to deliver a lot more value because you basically,
you're taking that person's time and you have to make it worthwhile. And you say with the economy,
you see that people don't want to wait, it's not worth their time to wait. And so seven seconds is
a long, it's a long time, you got to deliver a lot of value. Luke Gromen Exactly. Like, I think I
would be so curious to see, you know, like, to go from 40 to 03 is 20 times more expensive in tokens.
It's like 10 times longer in latency. But I would be surprised if it's even like 1% better
conversion. Like, I think we're getting off. We should talk about this a little bit more.
Sanyam Bhutani Yeah, yeah.
Luke Gromen Yeah, so I'm nerding out a little bit from like the ecom side of things. But
we only have two minutes left. So let's make sure we are able to wrap up as well. Yeah, I think this
is useful for like the 10% of people who are trying to actually make money with LLM. So I think it's a
good segue. Great. I mean, that was super informative. I'm really curious to just
chat with you a little bit more maybe on the the budgeting side of things. So they did something
that most people are very not familiar with. And as always, we'll send follow ups at the end. And
yeah, if there's any parting words, Amish, you can find you on Instagram, not Instagram,
Twitter and LinkedIn. And yeah,
Sanyam Bhutani LinkedIn. LinkedIn is a bit of a ghost town. I don't go there often.
But you can find me on Twitter, X, whatever. And yeah, or reach out, send comments, feedback.
Thanks for attending. You got something out of it. So thanks for coming.
I definitely did. Yeah. Thank you so much. All right. Thanks, Jason. Awesome. Bye.
