Thanks for everyone just popping in. I think the goal of the session really was just to
catch up with a couple of my friends who've been doing a lot of consulting and this is
the last time we're doing the consulting accelerator. My goal is to sort of focus more on research
for the summer and so I just wanted to bring my friends together, have a chat and also
answer some questions. To just introduce everybody, you know, I'm Jason. I think we're all indie
consultants here. I've been mostly doing a lot of work on open source tooling like instructor.
I've been doing the RAD course as well as this course and, you know, right now I'm doing
a couple of consulting engagements with like observability tools and eval tools, sort of
giving them some insights, particularly leaning on the experience I've had last year, mostly
focused on helping companies build search systems. Vignesh, do you want to introduce
yourself and then we can go into Kyle? Sure, so I'll keep it simple. So my name is Vignesh.
I'm an end-to-end consultant. I help companies ship AI features to production in 30 days.
That's typically the timeline I focus on. Prior to this, I was an early engineer at
two different startups that got acquired. Hey, Skyler, large background in both search
and recommendation at companies like Google and LinkedIn and also using AI to build medical
devices for mental health solutions. And in my last role, I was VP over engineering and
data science at a mental health startup. And now I've just been consulting for the
last, I don't know, how many months are we in? Like six or seven months or so. So yeah,
I think everyone in this panel sort of a different time scale. So I think I've been doing this
for maybe like two, two and a half years now. Every time Vignesh and I talk, it's very much
like, oh, I think you're gonna run into these problems in the next six months. Let's see
what happens there. And a part of- I'm noticing every time he says it, because I'm like, I,
you don't know everything actually, Jason, but then every time he says it, right? It's
a little bit annoying, but it's good. Yeah, it's like, you know, I think before it was
like, oh, you know, advisory work is really, really fun. You know, it's sort of higher
value. And then he's like, okay, maybe, I don't know if it's, if that's the right choice,
maybe I'll do it. Six months later, he's on advisory work. And I'm just like, oh man,
some of these companies don't really know what they want. This is the next thing you're
gonna run into. And we had a conversation yesterday. You could run a course and then,
oh, the course has this downside. Yeah, it's really, really interesting. Yeah, so the goal
for today's agenda really is to like, you know, do some of these brief introductions,
which we've already done, go through some of the like breakthrough moments we all had.
I think the reason I started this course in the beginning was because of these conversations
I had. Like, it was just people messaging me on Twitter, just asking, like, okay, like,
how do I get started? And basically my policy is if I answer the same question three times,
I'll write a blog post. And it's like, wow, I'm answering these like portfolio of questions.
Okay, let me write like a series. And at some point, I was like, this is very similar to
what I've been doing with the rag material. Let me go sort of figure out how I can package
this. And as always, once you, sorry, let's go. Then we'll talk a little bit more about
the specific things that we sort of, I like to think about, which is the positioning angle,
the pricing and proposals. Many of us are already pretty technical. And so this is going
to be less about like, how do you learn machine learning and really just understanding that
if you are a technical person, the things that sort of I had struggled with prior was
mostly around the business side of things. Like I could write code, I could understand
how to build systems. But then when someone says, great, how much do you charge? What
does that look like? Then it becomes this really like panic of like, oh, what am I worth?
All that stuff. And then afterwards, we'll talk a little bit more about, you know, I think
I'm really curious to hear about scholars and Ignatius' future plans. Right? I think everyone
sort of recognizes that if you do VC Backstart, there's this notion of an exit, right? It's
consulting a lifestyle business. Are we going to take our learnings and build a SaaS product?
Are we going to white label services, build an agency, and just have a conversation around
that? And then afterwards, we'll take the remainder of the time and do Q&A. And yeah,
we'll send session notes after this. We'll send other resources and materials. And as
always, you know, just have any questions in Slido and we'll answer them near the end.
And so the first thing I'm really curious about is why did everyone here start consulting?
Maybe I can go first just because for me, it was very much the case of I was taking time
off. And when ChatGPD came out, I wanted to do something around understanding how LLMs
work. And my background was in recommendation systems. And if I went and got a job in a
fang company, chances are I wouldn't be able to operate and work on some of these things.
And so a lot of my initial motivation was just if I consult, I can sort of figure things
out as other companies are figuring out. I can learn the most. I can work with like five
or six companies and absorb as much information as possible. And then it kind of snowballed
into an actual business once I had to figure out my pricing. Skylar, I'm curious because
I know we only had a conversation about this maybe six months ago.
Yeah. So when I was ready to leave my last role and find something new, I started interviewing
around. I wasn't even considering consulting at all. And I interviewed and had offers at
10 different companies. And I just wasn't feeling 100% sold on any of them. I think
like largely I left working in the mental health space because I don't really think
there's viable business models in the space. And so, you know, I think I just didn't find
anything that captured me enough. And so I declined all the offers and every single
one of them came back to me and asked if I'd consult for them. And so that just kind of
like, you know, at the same time, you know, I've known Jason for a while and I saw that
he had consulting popping off. So that was just like the light bulb moment of like, hey,
maybe I should try this.
Nice. I didn't know that was actually the case. We're gonna check on you.
I feel like there's 10 different answers. I don't know which level of hot take answer
I should give. I think for me, I kind of got to a place where just working at another
early stage startup as an engineer wasn't super excited to me again. Being the early
engineer and having a company actually work out is very difficult. So the options I was
looking at was being a founder or I was looking at being an investor. And then I didn't know
what I was going to do other than that. I wasn't very interested in going to like a
larger company because I just like building things zero to one. And I ended up doing product
engineering consulting. So building product engineering stuff. I had done a, I ran a growth
engineering team prior as well. When chat chip T came out, it really worked out because
then I could take my skill set of shipping things zero to one and connecting it with
actually using AI in production. My background is a little different because I don't have
an ML research background at all. I barely, there's a conference that Jason brought up
to me recently. That's like the number one AI conference or something. I didn't even
know what it was. So my background is all in shipping things, which is really useful
as well.
Yeah. I think that's one call out that, you know, Vignesh you made, which is, you know,
when I had built Instructor, a lot of the inbound was actually a lot of VCs going like,
we'll give you $6 million to figure out how to monetize Instructor. And like the thing
that stuck out to me was like, oh man, if you give me $6 million and I make a million
dollars, I'm going to feel like a loser. But if I just do the consulting thing and make
a million dollars, I have a great lifestyle. And you know, just the pressures and the,
like sort of the shape of the business you run if you bootstrap versus raise money is,
is very, very interesting. I guess to follow up on this, like at what point did you feel
like you made your first couple of breakthroughs in consulting? Like when did things start
feeling very different? For me, like the, the, the nightmare that happened was someone
just asked me like, how much do you charge? I give them a range between 150 and 170. They
say 170 immediately. And then it's on the paperwork. And I just go, oh man, I really
undercharged. And when I started doing more like advisory work, that's one thing I realized,
oh, if I understand what's at stake in their business, I can price on that.
Vignesh, you mentioned some, some clients in the past now where you're just sort of
calculating like how much would the company save and pointing in that? I'm curious to hear your thoughts.
Yeah. So if you're pricing on value, your two options are, are basically pricing on how much
money you're going to save. But the problem with saving money is there's an only a one X
multiple on saving money, which I just realized today at this private equity firm, but you can
prove that you can make a hundred K a year from building something. You can throw a five X
multiple on it. So it's always better to make a hundred K than save a hundred K it turns out.
But that kind of thinking is really important in consulting. I think because you try to find
the most interesting problems that are out there. What's the most important thing to work on?
I wasn't doing that at first. I was just doing started 115 hour moved up to like 200 an hour.
But you do the math on like, all right, I'm getting 200 an hour. I'm doing 40 hours a week.
I'm grinding. This is the math. Should I just get a job? Why am I doing this? So once you,
I think for me, the big shift was I got this project that was 25 K and they needed it done in
over the weekend and I got it done. And then they sold that project for a billion dollars to their
first client. I'm happy still that it happened, but I just decided I'll never take an hourly job
again after that. Scott, how about you? This reminds me of a terrible, the recruiter story.
I mean, it's like, it's worse than that in a way. Yeah. So I guess like there's two breakthroughs
that come to mind. You know, I think like on the pricing side, I actually don't think I struggle
as much with that as I think a lot of people do. Like, like my experience working as an executive,
you already have to like think in those terms. Yeah. And so like, it was very natural, I felt.
But I think one of the first big hiccups that I ran into, and this is something that I'm still
kind of working out, it has to do with like my positioning. Like I started out with most of these
companies wanting me for like more of like a head of AI, kind of fractional sort of setup.
But I quickly found out that like, without going through the layers of due diligence of an interview
or me like knowing the person, with a lot of the companies I was reaching, you get into like
weird kind of politics where it's not easy to sell that kind of service. So if you're in like a small,
if you're like targeting a small company that's like just trying to get their AI off the ground,
they have a head of engineering, they probably have a CEO. The head of engineering essentially
has to admit they don't know something about like how to make this work. And it like weakens their
political position. So it's like, it's a very touchy thing. And so when you start getting into
colder sets of audiences, it's something that's like hard to sell on. And so I'm like in the middle
of like pivoting a lot of like my stuff away from that, just because it's not the entry point.
The entry point has to be something more like tactical, I think, if you want to scale it.
So that's kind of like the real first breakthrough that I've had. And I'm still kind of like working
my way around. Yeah, this reminds me of a situation where a bunch of employees at this company that
raised like $100 million reached out to me to go talk to their CTO. I have a conversation with the
CTO and they they agreed that they sort of needed some help. And then when I flew to SF and met with
them and their head of AI, the head of AI just said, we're fine. And the conversation like me
hindered for three more weeks. So that's definitely happened in the past. It's almost just understanding
like the qualified buyer. Yeah, Vanessa's story really reminds me of the recruiter story. I think
many of you guys have probably heard where I sort of figured out my hourly pricing. And at some point
I was doing like $700 an hour for job interviews. And by the time I finished the job interviews,
the company paid me 20 grand to hire five people. But it turns out recruiters take 20% of their pay
and so the same recruiter that worked with me made $200,000. And then sort of you you run that in a
limit and you realize even though I was the one charging an insane hourly rate at the time,
I felt like I was the one taken the most advantage of. And that's the reason of like,
is understanding oh wow, like if I think in these two kinds of terms,
you know, it's actually fair for me to be paid more because then I understand then I'm communicating
what I know is their actual value. So one of the big things that we talk about in the course is
just like positioning, pricing and proposals. I think I don't even know if you've only just
had conversations about this, but I'm curious like what were the big lessons that you took away from
sort of those kinds of conversations around positioning and pricing? I think the way you
do proposals is very different than the standard that I do. Yeah, so positioning,
it's hard. I don't know that I'm an expert in positioning because I kind of just do whatever
comes up that's interesting to me. I will seek things out, but a lot of what I end up with is
almost like serendipity, just people that I know have introduced me to other people.
Everyone has problems. And because I don't have other employees, I can take risks and try new
things that are interesting to me. So I don't try to position myself as like, I'm an expert at
fine tuning or something like that. It's not really what I'm after. I'm more like, hey, I'm
really good at shipping things. What can we do with that? On proposals, I don't write the proposal
until we've basically figured everything out vocally. I found that once you write stuff down,
you're wasting a lot of time going back and forth. They're going to get into lawyer mode,
nitpicking things. So basically, I'm like, let's get to an agreement of what we're going to do.
Let's make sure we understand the problem, everything. And then the proposal itself is
just like validation of what we're going to do for a legal purpose. So it's a very different way
of shipping. I also don't go into crazy detail on proposals and stuff. I'm just like, we're going
to solve the problem. You trust me. I trust you. If it doesn't work, I'll give you the money back.
That's my simplicity answer. Yeah. I definitely also have a money back guarantee. I think for me,
it's like 50%. Skylar, you'll give 50% back, you're saying? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, interesting.
Mostly because I'm helping them run the team. And so if it worked three months in,
there's some different success criteria there. What about you, Skylar? Because I think we talked
about this before I ended up building out this material. Yeah. So I felt like I got the raw look
at a lot of the materials just from our conversations before. But I think, again,
the pricing thing, I felt like came very naturally to me. I think there was a lot on the positioning
that was helpful. I think that the biggest block I had in starting consulting is I really don't like
the act of creating content for the sake of creating content. And I just had it. And then
also just a lot of the salesy kind of activity of cold outreach. And I think you showed me a lot of
great strategies of how you can be helping people solve actual problems and then turn that into
content that helps other people solve the same problems. So I think a lot of the systems that
you kind of shared and ways to think about that was super helpful in getting me over the line.
Yeah. Yeah, it's definitely, I think what I've learned now is maybe two years ago, a lot of it
was a one-on-one free calls to figure out what the problems are and write about those problems
as they maybe go viral on Hacker News. There's a link that says, hey, you know, the free call,
you know, let's chat. And I've sort of gone up the hierarchy now where now there's like the lightning
lessons where I'm now inviting speakers, learning from them, and then writing about the questions
that are being asked. But a lot of it is the idea that there's a flywheel around the conversations
and your expertise and demonstrating your expertise, turn that into content, and then
using that to get more inbound. Because yeah, I also agree. I think
cold outreach has been pretty tricky. Ignatius, I guess most of your work is coming from referrals
these days or is it actually coming from content? I think- No, nothing from content. It's all
referrals. I was posting on LinkedIn for a while. That was useful because then everyone in my LinkedIn
network was like, okay, Vic is the guy for AI things. So then, but now everyone knows, so there's
not a lot of point in posting on LinkedIn again. Yeah, I think referrals work great for me.
Yeah. And like, is there anything that you're doing there on like how you drive those referrals
or is it very much that, okay, a buddy of mine is running a company, they're running the AI issues.
I generally know that like Vic on LinkedIn, this guy like does stuff. Let me see if they're available.
It's interesting. So at first I thought stuff like that would happen. The problem is that a lot of
VC backed companies like a year or two ago probably were like, we don't know enough about AI. Like we
should maybe bring someone in, but it's exactly like Scholar said. Like now if you're starting a
AI startup, right? Your YC company, it's like a red flag almost to hire like someone to help you with
AI. So I'm almost like talking more to companies that are aware of the fact that they don't know
how to ship with AI. And a lot of the problems that turns out is that they just don't know how
to ship product. It's less about like actually knowing how to ship with AI. It's like, we don't
know how to ship things. And then let's find something that's related to AI to do. So yeah,
like the types of companies I work with like range vastly. They're very, very different every time.
So I don't know that I could have like a specific content firewall that would work.
Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe there is something there.
Yeah. I mean, I doubt I'll be seeing you do things like, you know,
boilerplate code to launch products for like chat days.
That would be nuts.
Yeah. You know, one thing like I'll just like, I want to just like add to that to
put up what you're saying. I think that I felt like a similar thing of like, I had a lot of clients
and I was like, what I was doing for each client was kind of different. I had clients where I was
doing like data strategy stuff clients. I was like basically a fractional like AI engineer. So like
all these different kinds of things. And as I started to like sharpen my focus on like the
message that I want to give, and particularly the audience, I've, you actually get better engagement
on like every whatever medium you're going to use, whether it's socials, whether it's other things.
And so it's kind of like, it's like just the general advice of like niching down, like a lot
helps you get a lot more return on your investment, I think. And so it's like, I think there's like a
branding exercise that might be helpful to like walk through to figure out like, even though these
seem very disparate, what's like really the common kernel here? And how do I like message that and
associate that with my brand effectively? Yeah, I definitely recommend this one
pager called the one page marketing guide. Right? It's kind of like, what is my message to my
customer? What platform do they exist on? You know, how will I nurture them over time? How will I
create referrals for them? How do I deliver value consistently? All that stuff. It was really helpful
for me because I think after that, I realized that before it was very much like Jason went to the
LM's and then it becomes, if your product goes viral and you get a lot of usage and churn as a big
issue in your business, I can help you to figure out how do you build evals, run experimentation
to make this better. And as your team is, isn't able to figure this out yourself, I'll help you
build up that team. That's a super long message. And there's like way less risk for that. But
generally I found that it's been a very, very helpful to coordinate that kind of positioning.
I'll be here until I help you hire out your team. That makes a lot of sense.
I guess, you know, for me, as I work on these projects, like as I actually niche down,
I'm realizing that because I'm saying the same thing over and over again, it was useful to build
out the course, right? In which way, like I don't get the other 10 companies in 2025 asking me about
how to improve rag. I can pour them to the words of the course and then I can do my own independent
research or other work. I'm curious if you guys have thought about this kind of stuff where like,
does what you do now look like what you want to be doing in six months? Or like,
is there an exit strategy for what this looks like? Skylar, you can go first.
Yeah, it's a good question. I mean, I generally take things like very slowly, one step at a time.
So I don't tend to think too far ahead, but I think like kind of my thoughts right now,
kind of the engagements I'm enjoying more getting into are helping teams become self-sufficient.
And in some way that like, kind of like, I'm essentially like helping clients not need me.
And so there's a, I think there's just kind of this built in churn to it that I think means that
this is probably not like a viable long-term business, at least the way that I run it.
At least the way that I run it right now. And so obviously there's going to be changes that need
to be made. I have some ideas and thoughts and some things I want to do that I'm still validating.
When looking at sort of like how I engage with most of my clients these days,
really what I'm doing is, you know, as a start, I'll help them develop like evals
and then help them run like an evaluation driven development process. But like that helping them
run that is really about like one, forcing them to look at data, two, showing them like,
you know, where the model is performing well, where it's not performing well,
giving them ideas on how to fix it. But then I'm also giving them like a lot of like tips on,
okay, if you want to fix this, here's some different experiments to run. Here's how you
might do it in your code base. And also here's links to blogs and other resources. And so I've
been thinking in my head that there's a structured version of this that's like more productized.
I think behind the scenes, it's probably still like heavily services based. But I think, you know,
imagine like every week or something, you get a report that tells you like,
here's the regressions your model has, here's like the underperforming slices,
here's some experiments to run. And then you have like interleaved micro learning
for something that's like, here's a video to explain why in three minutes. But so that's
kind of like the direction I'm toying with right now. But you know, the market will validate. So
we'll see. There's almost like you are trying to take your services, your learnings there,
and then turn it into some kind of like SaaS plus services. And that will be able to drive some form
of recurring revenue, even if it is like a $30,000 initial contract, and then like $500 a month
afterwards. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. What about you, Bignesh? I know you try I know you
dabbled in advisory, but also know you have some advice going well, like it's it's good. It's
you might just defining what that is for you. Good question. So I was mostly doing implementation
work. So I would actually find the problem that needed to get solved, then I would write code to
solve the problem. And that would then once I was done with that, I would find some other problems
to solve there. I'd find some other problems solve somewhere else. The problem with that is you could
I was doing two and a half of those in a month once and I did just about nothing other than
write code the entire month, which is fun, but it does not scale in the same way.
I think if you want to scale that the way to scale that is to solve more expensive problems,
you just have to keep finding more and more expensive problems all the time,
which unless you have like really unbelievable deal flow can be a tricky thing to maintain.
So then I looked into okay, maybe I should do advisory, which is like, I don't know,
let's say it's 10 to 20k a month and just asking questions. And you're helping them
basically figure out what it is that they should be building, help them architect it, answer all
their questions, do all of that, but you're not writing the code. They have other people on their
team that can actually do that. That scales a little bit better because you could do maybe
five or six of those, maybe seven, I don't know, like you have to pick a number.
And it's a little bit more like recurring revenue because you're signing three-month
contracts or something, right? And then they extend and all of that. But I like writing code.
So now I'm like, I miss writing code. I haven't written code in like a few months now.
And people are asking me, how's Klein? How's AMP code? I'm like, I don't need to use these
things anymore. So I have no idea, maybe. So I think like the next step that Jason always brings
up is you do a course after that, which is you take all the lessons and advisor, you build a
course around it. Then you can scale that to more people. The truth is I don't know what I'm going
to do. Like I think every, all of these options have been really good for me. I'm happy with all
of them. I don't have any employees that I have to like keep anything sustainable or anything. I can
just try things. So there's a lot of options. Like maybe I end up being a private equity guy and I
just like take over companies and redo it with AI and sell over something. So who knows?
Yeah.
Hamil and I definitely had those conversations maybe like a year ago where it's like,
if you guys are going to change stuff, why don't we just raise like $20 million, like buy a bunch of-
Maybe we should do that.
Oh, shops. Or like, you know, AI PDF processing and just
handle their customer support. Oh, perfect. I think we nailed it.
Yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense. It's definitely unclear what the path looks like,
but I think in the case where folks are building agencies, I don't know if folks have listened to
the Andy Walters fireside chat, he is mostly solving the problem of hiring. I think he has a
team of like 10 to 20 people at any given time building implementation projects. And one of his
goals is sort of having these longer contracts where you are just the implementation shop.
It's not the case like McKinsey does a six month contract and then the next time they do some work,
they want to fit into that budget. It's actually the case that these bigger companies will allocate
budget to the agencies every year, every quarter to have them do work. That's a very different way
of doing things. This is not really what the indie consultant does, but I'm sure we also have another
fireside chat with Andy once he probably hits like 10, 20, 30, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40,
10 million errors or something like that. Cool. With that in mind, let's also jump into some
questions. I'm going to just talk about the fact that a lot of this material is derived from
conversations I've had with folks in this course. I think maybe like 10, 20 percent of the folks here
are previous students. This will be the last time I'm running this live office hours with
Maven, mostly because I'm at a point now where I kind of know what kind of research topics I want
to tackle. I'm going to spend the rest of the next two quarters basically doing that research,
focusing on building up some agents, building on eval agents, and exploring a lot more of the
implementation side. Just like Vignesh, I think a bit of the courses and the consulting was very
good to help me understand what the big problems are, but I'm also missing doing a lot of research
and learning more about RL. I've just been spending the past three days reading RL papers.
With that said, the next cohort is Monday. It's basically Monday, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
It's one hour of pre-recorded content every day and then a one-hour office hour session where we
sort of have these conversations. Then on the Wednesday, we'll also have an additional extra
hour where I bring in my legal team to mostly answer questions about things like incorporation,
how do you handle things like IP? A couple folks, for example, are thinking about having white-labeled
services that turn into SaaS and how you'd protect yourself and make sure that the SaaS
that you've built is not contaminated in these contracts and just explore those kinds of ideas
around taxation, incorporation, and whatnot. With that in mind, let's jump into some questions.
Let me just post the slide one more time. Let's jump into some of these things.
This is an interesting one. What are your opinions on NDAs and client relationships?
I don't sign too many NDAs, but Skylar, I'm curious to hear your thoughts. Maybe Skylar,
just because I think you're also very much at an executive level.
Yeah, I think NDAs are pretty standard. I have a standard mutual NDA that I sign with clients.
I think in general, it's a pretty standard business practice. Even if there's a lot of trust,
probably lawyers on their side are telling them, hey, you should sign an NDA. Honestly,
it makes sense to do it. I don't sign NDAs to protect my own stuff. I think a lot of people
like to sign NDAs to protect their own stuff. I would say 99.9% of the time, your stuff isn't
worth as much as you think it is. Your ability to do that thing is very valuable, but the thing
itself is often not valuable to copy. I don't think that you really need NDAs, but I also don't
think you should feel weird about signing them. I'll make one call out, which is that I have a
lot of conversations about IP. What I've done is because I own the instructor library, a lot of the
IP around structured outputs and how I think about writing code is baked into the products I build
into instructor. In my contract, it says, sure, we have shared IP, but I'll be using all these
pre-existing tools and pre-existing playbooks. The playbooks for improving the RAG is just part of
the RAG course IP. That allows me to keep a little bit of my information there. Again, generally,
the IP is not worth much unless you have a lot of brand, a lot of talent, or a lot of actual
software that you've built prior. Big Nash, I think you're the one writing the most code.
I'm curious how you feel about this. I try not to sign NDAs until I have to look at customer data
because then I'll just be signing NDAs all the time and I don't really want to be doing that.
There's not really much harm to NDAs, I don't think. Non-competes, I don't sign those. I think
that's really risky just because I don't know how enforceable they are nowadays. I know the FTC was
trying to get rid of them. I don't know what happened with that. The problem is every SaaS
company is almost the same thing at some point. Do you really want to sign anything? Probably not.
I don't sign non-competes. I think background IP is a thing that you can look into.
Basically, you can keep some of the scaffolding of the tooling that you're using for companies.
Maybe there's ways where you could keep some of that for future clients and stuff.
I don't bother with that. I don't do any of that stuff. I know some people do, but I don't do it.
I think what you can do, however, is if you're building something,
for let's say you find a problem out there and instead of just saying,
I'm going to sell this to you for 50 grand, you could say, I'm going to build this for you and
sell it to you for like 5k a month or something, but I get to keep it and I can sell it to other
but maybe not people that directly compete with you. There's things that you can do around this,
but I would say it's more advanced stuff. That's definitely something I'll try to get Luke to cover
on the legal office hours. Let's go to the next question, which is, what is the biggest
obstacle you face in a client's organization when deploying AI solutions and how do you navigate this?
Ignatius, I think again, you're shipping the most code here. I'm curious how that starts with you.
I know you pair with engineers. You make sure in your contract you allocate,
you make them allocate headcount for you. I'm talking about that.
Right. The question is, what's the hardest part about shipping AI to production, essentially?
What am I noticing? That's such a hard question to answer. I think that one thing that I've noticed
is that they expect too much to happen. Then they're like, ah, yes, we should be building an
agent that we no longer need a UI at all. Let's say you're a platform that does data analysis
for the CFO team or something. Instead of saying, or something like that, maybe instead of saying,
we'll have a UI that can build something, they're like, oh, we're just going to have an agent that
solves everything for you now. We don't need anything. That's not a super realistic plan.
I think they also have expectations around timing, what can actually get done in a certain period.
I try to scope down a lot. That's one big piece. The second piece is internal skill set.
There's usually a staff engineer or two that's really strong and can pick things up,
but the rest of the team, getting them to be able to understand how to use different
LM tools, how to evaluate these things, all of that, that takes a lot of time.
Figuring out how to upscale everyone else has been a big problem.
It makes sense. I think the expectation setting is a big one. I think one of my biggest red flags
when I am talking to prospects is that they just say, hey, our CEO says we really need AI.
Can you help us with AI? There's a conference in six months with our company, and we need to
launch something with AI. That's usually when things really have poor expectations. But,
Skyler, again, you're more on the executive side. Yeah. I think because I've kind of like,
and I'm still early in this game, but because I've kind of done a lot of different things,
it's hard for me to point at one thing that's the biggest problem. I feel like very often the
problems I run into actually come back to being issues with my positioning and what clients I take.
So I think, for instance, one issue I've often ran into is I would start working with companies
who didn't have an AI product launched yet, and I was going to help them get to launch.
One thing to think about there, though, is if they don't have users, they often don't have the
urgency to really solve it. So when you're thinking about, do they actually feel the pain?
That can be problematic. I would say the biggest mistake I've made here, or the biggest challenge
I've had, there's a lot of people who, like evals is kind of in the space now. So people know the
word, and they're like, so you'll have this general sense that, yeah, I should do evals.
But people don't really know what that means broadly, and they don't feel the urgency to do it.
So I feel like very often I'll have people come to me and they're like, yeah, I need to make sure
I have evals so I know how my system works. And if you don't qualify those people well,
you might end up with people who really, they might give you money, but at the same time,
it's very hard to align with what their expectations are. And even if they're going
to pay you, at the end of the day, you want to make sure you're making the customer satisfied,
because that's what's going to help you stimulate referrals, etc. and create that flywheel effect.
If you have a bunch of lukewarm customers who are just like, this is a checkbox kind of thing,
it's hard to get that. Yeah, I definitely had that mid-summer last year where it was two or three
$7,000 contracts, but they're not really asking me questions. They're not really in any pain.
I'm just going like, hey guys, I'm feeling weird about not providing value. What's going on here?
That's a situation where you definitely want to avoid in the long term. I guess one thing I'll
call out, especially because I see a couple of questions around like, who should I work for?
Smaller companies, bigger companies? What's the most lucrative industry? I think the one thing
that we'll talk a lot about on the day two on pricing is that you have to sell against some kind
of pain. You need to understand what is at stake in their business and what does success look like
and what is the thing that we're actually celebrating? If you ask me about my positioning,
a lot of it is once you go viral and your AI does not work, now you know how much it's costing you.
Your ARR went from zero to a hundred thousand a month and you saw it drop to 80 the next month
and then 60 in the month afterwards. Now you're freaking out. What is that worth?
You can only ask that question if they are in some kind of pain and you know what's at stake.
If I asked how would we celebrate a year from now, you would say, oh, Jason,
help me get my revenue back. It's not Jason charges me a thousand dollars an hour for a
phone call once a week. That's not the right positioning. If you think about why is a
startup not paying as much as well because they don't really have that many users,
they don't really know what the pain is, the pain is feeling confused. Whereas if you work
with a private equity fund, it's like, hey, if I can make 30 year company 20% more productive,
that's a hundred thousand dollars a month. So how much are you willing to, what percentage of that
hundred thousand dollars a month are you willing to invest to making that better? Is the answer
2%? Is the answer 10%? Well, that depends on how much I believe in the product. I think
that's why we're talking about like teaching engineers how to use cursor.
Right. And they're like, how much would this cost? Would this cost like $70 a person? I was like,
well, how much do you pay your engineers? How many engineers are there? Do you think they're
going to be 2% more productive or like 50% more productive? Okay. So you have a $20 million
headcount budget and you want to make it 20% more productive. What does that number look like? And
then you realize, wow, there's, there's like much more demand and much more capital that they're
willing to move around if you believe that they can make that more productive. All right. So you're
using these numbers on what's at stake and that's really a lot of what the conversations we have
next week will be about. Yeah. Well, one just quick thing to add on that. There's a lot of people
getting into the consulting space that I see make what I think is a mistake on the pain. There's a
lot of people you'll see that like, I don't know how to describe it, but it's like they have the
pain, but they're not symptomatic maybe, IE like they're churning customers, but they aren't
looking at it or watching it, you know, like, like things like that. And you can spend a lot of time
trying to convince them of the pain they have or should have. And that's often a mistake because
like, obviously if they're not looking at it, they're not prioritizing that. And like, you should be
wary of trying to convince a prospect. They have a problem that you're going to fill.
I just go in there. I'm like, what's your biggest problem? In any sense, like in any way, like is
it your CEO sucks? Like, okay, let's like maybe solve that problem. He's like, let's fix that.
I don't know. Like maybe. What have like, what's like a crazy, like I can tell I can give you some
crazy answers for like, what's at stake, but I really want to hear maybe like Skylar and Vignesh,
like when you ask that question of like, what's your biggest problem? Like what's the craziest
answer you've gotten? Like our engineering team sucks or like, or they're like, oh, our
investors don't understand what we're doing or oh, we need to like pivot the company like,
or hey, we're spending half of our, I just talked to a customer. I was like,
we're spending half the month on like our closing the books every month. Like, can we solve that?
Like there are crazy problems out there. And like, if you're focused on saying like, oh,
you should probably be like doing this one thing or what, like trying to convince them.
I just feel like they have to come to that conclusion on their own.
Yeah. What do you want to solve? Like, let's just figure out how to solve it. I don't know.
It's easier. Yeah. Skylar, what's been your craziest response to what the pain is?
Yeah. So there's one company, I didn't end up taking them as a client because I thought
things were too dire and I didn't think I would actually be able to help it.
There was a company.
It's just hard 1%.
I mean, so this company, they had basically scaled pretty successfully. And in terms of like how many
users they were able to acquire, they didn't think through their business model well enough.
And so their customer acquisition cost was actually like higher than like,
like the payback period was basically too long to break even. And they weren't watching that closely
and they realized they had like two months of runway left. And I was like looking at this and
there was some stuff to do to like patch up churn and stuff, but just like what it would take to
like get that they needed a new round of funding. And so I was like, you know, I don't know what
that company is doing now, but I haven't heard from them. So maybe they went under.
They charged 10% of the next funding round.
I mean, if they get a funding round.
Offer to help them raise the fund, you know.
You know, so here's just like maybe a hot take. I think if you wait to the, if you have like a
fundamentally not viable business model and you waited until like you have two months left to like
realize it, like probably you're not a good operator. And so like I didn't have confidence
they would even be able to like raise another round.
Yep. I think that makes sense. I've definitely had things similar where it's like, hey, I'm like
about to close $7 million, but my CTO left the company. I need you to just like come in
while I'm doing this and just manage the team. So we have a product that we can launch
after we close. I just need this to look legit until then. And I was like, I don't even know
how to price that, but that sounds, that sounds terrible. Right. Yeah.
If you just think to yourself, does this seem fun? I think that just filters a lot of things
in a good way and not a good way that I'm like, okay, if this is not fun, what's the penalty?
Am I willing to charge like 75% more? Are they going to be okay with that? But yeah, I do think
ultimately if you're going to be a consultant, you sort of have to work with companies that have
money. They already have to have money. And are a little sick. Yeah. And they have to be like,
we have this real problem. It's worth solving. We can pay you to do it. If they're unable to do that,
then I think it's very difficult to justify anything. You're not going to be able to sell them.
But there's a lot of worlds in terms of that idea. I wouldn't suggest this, but I have a
consultant friend who basically, he works in the P&G space and he basically helps companies get
acquired. And then he takes 10%. He's a company that slows down, they were growing and then it
starts slowing down. He's like, instead of throwing it away, let's sell it into some PE firm or merge
it and I'll take 10% at the end. And he's making a great business off of this. It's a bit of a niche
thing. Not a lot of people are doing it. He understands the world. So infinite opportunity out
there. I'll also call out that once you start understanding what's at stake and you start
writing content about it and maybe this changes your inbound, you can also think about what it
would mean to provide services that are outside the scope of what you're comfortable doing.
Most of last year, what I thought I was doing was coaching on how to do experimentation.
And now so much of it became actually around recruiting and helping them hire people.
And so then I can say, you know what, tier one of my service is I run your standup on your team,
but tier two is I really help you figure out how do you build a hiring process and an interview
pipeline and I will participate in selling and closing the head of AI of the company you've
drawn and the contract ends once that wraps up. I never ended up doing anything around fundraising
because I think that's like, the incentives are weird. I feel weird introducing friends to VCs
that way, but it was very much like me realizing that hiring was a huge, huge angle of what I was
able to help with people. Because a lot of what I was doing was kind of like teaching them how to
do experimentation and then replacing myself later. Right. It's interesting because once you
get into a company, they do hire you for a specific problem upfront, but then once you build trust and
you show them other things, like for example, I have a client that my job was let's get this
AI thing shipped in two months or whatever. And then we did it. And then the job became,
can we get more things shipped with other engineers doing it? That happened. Now my job is like,
oh, the CTO trusts me, the CEO trusts me, all the engineers trust me. Let's just figure out
what should we build? What should the roadmap be? How should we train new engineers that come in?
I had no expectation that that would be my job, but it's become that over time. So I will say
that if you're trying to position yourself as a consultant, you have to offer something that they
can't hire someone full time for. If you can, that is never going to work. Certainly not the
augment version where it's like, we're going to keep you temp until like we can find someone else
for it. I feel like that it's just really hard to make that work well for a lot of political reasons.
And you have to build trust internally. You have to be so good at whatever you're offering
that there isn't like a lot of doubt about it. So you just have to figure out what your question.
This was a good question, which is, can you share an example where you steered clients away from
unfeasible, like questionable kinds of projects while preserving the relationship? I kind of want
to answer this a little bit myself primarily because I think a part of it is when you have
the courage to charge more, you can give better guarantees, right? If I'm charging like $100 an
hour and I don't think the company is going the right direction, it's really hard to push back.
It's really unclear whether or not they know that I want what's best for them. Maybe we're just like
sort of spinning the wheels. But when companies are charging a lot more, I can say, hey, I
understand that your actual problem is this, right? And I've offered like refunding them because I
don't believe in the product and they take that response very seriously. So I'm curious if you
guys have similar experiences where you're trying to steer a client away from a certain kind of
augmentation. I mean, I've had that in like, I feel like a kind of micro sense in that I think
a lot of people that I talk to have an unrealistic idea of like what capabilities of current,
you know, AI models are. And so they just want it to like do everything and, you know,
just be like this magic wand kind of experience. And so like often the
conversation I have with them is just one about risk. Like you as like the founder of your company
or you as like the decision maker have to decide how much risk you want to take. And the more
open ended we let this thing be, the more risk there is. And the risk goes up exponentially,
you know, with how much open ended it is. So I usually suggest like, hey, let's do something
small, fast, low risk, see that validate that there's even demand for that, that your customers
even want that before spending the risk tax on the big thing. So that's like a pretty common
thing. And that really just boils down to like, what is the product experience that the AI is
living in? You know, make sense. And then we have only maybe six minutes. I can probably run like
five minutes over. But I guess some of the questions are around like, like, what is the
advice you would have given yourself, you know, when you started out? So I guess, I guess you're
still pretty, pretty early, like you're only six months in, but yeah. I mean, I think like my advice
still would just be, you know, spend, spend some time working, working on your positioning. And I
think part of your early clientele is probably going to be figuring that out a little bit. And
over time, it's probably never like static, you know, you're probably going to evolve it over time.
But spend some like honest time like reflecting on that, like, who is it that you want to help?
And what are the types of problems they have? What from your experience aligns with that?
Because you can start to create a pretty compelling, like little package of like,
okay, here's the types of things I should write about, and where I should write it,
because that's where my audience is. These are the problems they're facing. And then you also
have the stories from your background that kind of like reinforce why you are good for those problems.
And so I think like a little bit of upfront effort on that makes a lot of sense. And that's
something I neglected to do early on, I think. Big Nash, how about you? Advice to your, you know,
budding AI career? I think you always learn the most by doing things. So
if I were to suggest people like take the course, but then actually try to like,
you know, find a client, like find your first client, make the mistakes,
you'll write the contract slightly wrong, like whatever it is, maybe you overestimate the work,
maybe you end up doing it hourly. It's fine. Like you'll learn something from it. And then you'll
figure something out. I think there's no amount of me, Jason, sitting here saying,
here's all learnings, like skip all this stuff that's going to really help you.
I think you just have to do it. And then you'll very quickly realize what you like doing, what
you don't like doing, who needs the most help, and try to get everyone you know, to know that
you're doing this, and they'll send you stuff. That's my suggestion. I think that makes sense.
A lot of it is around just like, how can we get proof? How can we write about these things and
help us figure out like, who is the reader? Are they the customer I want? And how should I change
my writing or my distribution or my positioning to get those kinds of customers? And then afterwards,
as long as you're talking to them and doing things, you can use that to create any kind of
flywheel, whether that's one referrals, whether that's like posting blog, like writing blog posts
or anything like that. Yeah, a lot of progress can be made there. Let me see, as I just look
at over some of these questions, do you think there's any questions folks are not asking that
they should? Yeah, I'm just looking at some of these questions. Again, getting advice on the
first client, you know, you just got to reach out, you have to let people know that you're
actually taking on clients, you know, having some kind of funnel, having some kind of content that
you can use is very helpful. Otherwise, just letting everyone people everyone know what you're doing.
Yeah, maybe I'll take a look at these and send up a follow email of any of these questions.
Oh, no, I was just gonna say, yeah, looking over, I don't see any like significant gaps,
I feel like I'm seeing things that cover the spectrum. Yeah, cool. I'll do like a quick blurb
on my end. And then we wrap things up. And we'll follow up with the notes. How do you maintain your
energy levels to create great work? You just get rewarded for it. You know, like when I wrote like
one really viral blog post that went on Hacker News, and then the next week, I did like $100,000
of, you know, client inbound. I was like, Oh, wow, like, if I just do the great work, I actually get
rewarded for it. Right? I think when you are just an engineer at a company, and you do really great
work, your compensation is almost like independent of that. And there's actually no incentives,
outside of like recruiting for us to write a lot and write really detailed work on the stuff that
you do. But as a consultant, you are incentivized to do good work, right about that, because it
actually is something you get rewarded for. Right? That was sort of what really motivated me in the
beginning. It just understanding like, Oh, this is the first time I'm actually rewarded for
communicating this way. And with that, yeah, I think just as an overview of sort of the things
that we talked about, a lot of it is around like, you know, how do we build credibility, a lot of
that just comes from running content and spinning the content flywheel and really thinking about your
positioning. Right? The idea is like, as you talk to customers, whether they're like the right
customer or not, you understand what their problems are. And then as you understand what those
problems are, you can write about it. And if you write something well and clear, then those people
will come to you and reach out. And if it's not clear, you kind of get this feedback loop of, Oh,
wow, when I wrote this blog post on how to hire AI engineers, 10 people reached out and had 10
conversations. Right? Versus you write about evals and maybe 100 people reach out. Okay. I'm
getting some signal as to what's going on. Then a part of it is going to be figuring out how you
shift from an hourly rate to any kind of value-based consulting. And it's not going to be the case that
there is a script that you follow that says, Oh, now I'm willing to pay you a $10,000 an hour or
$10,000 for some piece of work, but really just changing the questions you ask to realize that
it's not really about how much you are worth as the engineer, but how big the problem is.
And a lot of this for me isn't even about how do I get value-based consulting. It's more like,
once I use these frameworks, I realize that I feel very comfortable asking for $100,000. Right? I
think that the first time I did a $100,000 contract, it was very much, Oh, what's that
stake in your business? Oh, you demoed this product to Notion and to Cursor and you lost the deal
because the AI didn't work. And these were $200,000 deals. And so really what's happening is you're
losing massive customers because of reliability issues. Right? Well, I can help those reliability
issues, but how am I going to do that? Maybe I help with the team, I help hire. These are details,
but I want to price against the pain of losing the next hyperscaler or the scale-up. And that's
something that happens a lot in thinking about how you price these. Then lastly, a lot of it is just
going to be around how I write proposals and specifically offering multiple tiers and pricing.
Again, just communicating to the customer that I know what you really want and here's multiple
services and products that I can offer you to get you what you really want. Right? If I have a
relationship with Cursor and Notion, I'm going to start mentioning them. Okay, I'll try to get you
another demo slot. Right? I will try to make introductions to other customers because now
I know what you want. It's not just evals, it's something much bigger pictured. And then as a bonus
day on day two, we'll have the legal office hours. And so, yeah, this will be the last time I'm doing
it. Afterwards, we'll just be doing some research because that's actually something I miss a lot.
And with that, you know, Scholar, Vignesh, thank you for coming on. Hopefully this is very helpful
and we'll follow up with any kind of notes and links afterwards. Thanks, Jason. Thanks, everyone.
