I think I was in your first court as well, and I was got a lot of great questions.
So I'm hoping for that today as well.
I think there was a Slido link posted on your Slack so you can get your questions in.
And I'm Joe.
I work at Vespa and I'll talk about what you see is what you search and using
vision language models for PDF retrieval.
Yeah.
So I'll give a quick introduction, talk a little bit about indexing and searching
PDFs, quite popular for a rag to handle PDF formats.
It turns out a lot of important information in those document types.
Talk a little bit about vision language models.
Most of you probably played around with them.
Then I introduced you to cold poly.
So that's a retrieval model that's based on using vision language models.
And talk a little bit about scaling that to larger collections in case you have
millions of PDFs, a little bit about rag with the LMS and then some Q and A.
So you can ask all the questions.
PDFs is like messy, right?
There's a lot of different formats, exporter tools, lots of different information,
layouts, some of these even aren't really text, they're just an image embedded in
the files, so that's kind of challenging.
So it's always been fascinating to try to build search over PDF documents, right?
And it has also a lot of like really important information in the visual
clues, tables, charts, and as I said, embedded images.
And of course, when the whole rag wave hype started, there were like lots of
demos, like chat with your PDFs.
So it's kind of been popular for some time.
So you need some kind of extraction pipeline here to extract data.
For example, if you want to use text search or embedding based search or any
type of search solution, you typically have to transform your data into text.
But this process is quite messy.
There's probably, there's probably like hundreds of different tools that tries to
extract information out of PDF documents, but there are several issues with it.
For example, embedded images, the whole thing here in the yellow line is
actually an embedded image.
It's difficult to extract that information without having a OCR pipeline.
Also typically the ordering and the layout or the font size that could emphasize
the importance, it's not really well extracted when you use some of the, at
least some of the bad part, PDF parsers.
It's like example of the nice looking document on the left side and the right
side after going through a rough text extraction routine.
So the whole kind of the word, the first words here, sustainability is not like
the first word in the extracted text.
And that can have like impact on embedding search or even text search, like with PM25.
In any case, why are we extracting the text in the first place?
So why are we doing that?
That's because historically you had to do that in order to use a text search engine.
Right.
And if you're using like a text search engine, like Elasticsearch or RESTPAR or
anything, you still have to map the text data so that you can use a text search
index and now with more popularity around embedding, embedding based retrieval,
vector database and so forth.
Then you're in addition embedding the text.
Right.
And then there's a lot of different other models, FirstBlade, OpenAI,
lots of different models.
And also such an interesting area where there's a lot of money and a lot of
investment in extract, right?
There are a lot of technologies.
There's a well-known project called Appasha Tika that is
handling multiple different formats.
There are several companies, right, funded to solve this problem.
You have unstructured, then you also have from the hyperscalers, you have
different type of solutions, you have Lama Cloud, so it's like really hot area.
But in terms of that, vision language models are also pretty good at reading
screenshots of PDF documents and vision language models, I think was the most
exciting development in 2024, like last year, and so much happened and really
I would say dramatic progress.
And broadly, like BLMs are defined as this multi-model that can both take
text and image as input and then generate text, right?
So you can give it an image and ask, for example, what's in the image,
and then have the model answer.
So there's a great introduction blog post from the excellent
Huginface team linked here.
I will share the slides with Jason afterwards so we can link it up to
the course material so you can click on the links and also the frontier models
like GPT-4, 4.5, Gemini have really great vision capabilities.
And I talked about last year, 2024, there was like a lot of progress, right?
The early days to like able to search for cats on the internet and you're
doing embedding based retrieval, then OpenAI came with a vision capable model.
And after that, the last part of 2024 was just wild with lots of different
models from providers, closed source, also open source alternative.
Where, by the way, 2025, this last slide I made last year, accuracy is like
different types of tasks, like image classification or OCR type of tasks.
And lots of progress on this.
And one of the models that was released last year was PolyGemma.
And this was Google's kind of cutting edge, open weight, not open source, but
open weight visual language model that's been trained and have these
kind of OCR capabilities.
You can, for example, use the question answering on the right side here.
There's a demo from a Huginface space demo where I've given it a
screenshot, a PDF page.
Like the entire page in a PDF.
That's one input.
The other input is a question.
Like what is the percentage of produced water that is reused?
Then it reads this information and comes out with the answer.
But that's given one page.
And I think this, for example, is also using an open source model from Qwenn.
And similar, I give it a image.
It's quite advanced.
And I think I asked it like, what is going on in this image?
And it outputs this and explains the image in a really well way, because
this is like I take to my manager and say, Hey, you know, we did this
optimizations, present this data.
It's a really lot of things going on here.
And the VLM basically perfectly explains what's going on in this image.
It compares these lines, it defines what they are.
It also says that the latency have decreased a lot, indicating improved
performance, and that's exactly what this graph is showing.
So I was mind blown by all the progress VLMs had in the last year.
Then talk about Co-Poly.
And the researchers behind Co-Poly realized that we have these really
powerful VLMs, so maybe we can try to replace the text only embedding models.
Right?
So open AI embedding models or Coheer, previous generation text embedding
models that takes some text input and then produces a vector representation.
What if we can just take a screenshot and use the VLM as the kind of backbone
to produce the vector embedding.
They also argued that in this industry, right, you have all these kind of
messy PDFs and the performance bottleneck is typically in the extraction process,
not so much in actual choosing the embedding model or VM25.
And I think everyone that has tried to do PDF search can testify that
extraction is really important.
But with Co-Poly, you essentially bypass all of this because you're not going
through a text extraction routine.
So they illustrate this in the paper on the top here, they said, okay, you have
a PDF, you have to do text extraction.
And in order to identify if there are embeddable images, things that you
can't extract text from, you have to do OCR.
And also you would like to do layout detection to figure out where the elements
are actually laid out on the page.
And then you can put this into a vector database or a search engine by
cast this capability and then perform retrieval.
And they say that, okay, let's just take a screenshot of the page, give it to
Polygamma, obtain some vector representation and perform a similarity
calculation over this data.
So that's for me, when I saw this, it was like, wow, what are you just
embedding the screenshot of the entire page?
Like you don't have to do the text extraction at all.
You don't have to deal with chunking.
There's probably millions of hours worth of videos on YouTube, right?
Dedicated to chunking, chunk size, split size, whatnot, right?
Here it's just bypass that.
So I was like really intrigued when I saw this paper and copoly is short for
contextualized late interaction over polygamas.
That's a lot, right?
So let's try to break that down.
It builds on two concepts.
It uses the embeddings to obtain multiple embeddings out of one page.
And that's the, that's the contextualized embeddings.
I'll talk, give more concrete examples here, but take the screenshot of the
page and obtain these multi vector representations.
And then similar for a text query, you do the same thing and then you also
obtain multiple vector representations.
And then there's the late interaction part here.
You can do both of these like independently.
And the scoring is about the late interaction between the representations
of the credit text versus the page, the page screenshot.
And I can call this like a by encoder architecture because of this, because
you can take all your PDFs, run them through this model and obtain the
embeddings and then do that offline.
And at the online stage, where there's a user using your system, you encode just
the query and you don't have to encode the document.
That's why it's called a by encoder or a two tower.
It's also popular to call this kind of architecture.
But one more difference from embeddings from Coheer or OpenAI is that here you
have multiple embeddings representing the query text, and you also have multiple
embeddings to represent the screenshot of the page.
And to summarize Co-Poly, what's the key things about Co-Poly is that you can
perform this kind of matching and retrieval without actually doing text
extraction, you avoid an OCR in your document processing pipeline, you don't
have to do any kind of layout detection.
So it greatly has a great potential to reduce the complexity of your
document processing pipeline.
And also as the paper demonstrate is that you can also get better relevancy,
at least on this benchmark that they demonstrate on.
And I think it's like really strong future direction because you avoid all
this complexity and it's also is the method that generalized to a lot of
different formats, right?
So essentially can you print it?
You can also search it, right?
So I think that's very powerful in terms of like, if you can render it on the
page, you know, operator from OpenAI and things, what you're seeing on your
page and the text, if you can screenshot that, run it to Co-Poly is essentially
searchable without having to deal with different types of formats, just taking
the image.
So let's go a little bit into the real details of Co-Poly.
The underlying vision language model takes a screenshot of a PDF page, not
the whole document, but one page at a time.
And it essentially divides this image into what they call patches.
So, but you can also think about like a grid cell and one page essentially is
1024 cells and each of these cells or patches are represented as a vector,
128 dimensional vector.
And if you, for example, do a text query with six, or sorry, you also in
addition, they do add a prefix.
So it turns out to from 1024 into 2030 vectors because they add a token
prefix, which is describe the image and they obtain the embedding.
So this is kind of a situation that each of the areas or each of the cells are
represented as a vector and you do this on a per page level, not the whole PDF.
So if you have one PDF, you first extract all the pages and then you run each of
the pages through Co-Poly and then you obtain these multidimensional tensor
with 1030 vectors.
And on the query side, you run it through the same vision language model.
Remember you can both input text and image and there you also have the same
dimensionality, so each of the query tokens are in the question or query is
converted into a 128 dimensional vector.
This is the same.
And they also do some kind of query expansion there to expand the
query so you have slightly longer.
Also it's actually token.
So after you tokenize the text with the tokenizer that is associated
with this public MIMO.
In the bi-encoder architecture, you have the document side representations
and you have the query representation.
And the scoring is what is referenced as the kind of late interaction and
late interaction was actually introduced five years ago by the same author of
the DSPy library and the benefit of this is that this kind of scoring mechanism
has, is easier to train, to learn this kind of representation and it takes,
I think the next slide actually explains it a little bit better, but you do a lot
of dot products between all the query tokens and all the patch embeddings.
And then you take a sum over all the query tokens.
So this is tries to illustrate the maximum similarity function that is used
and it's called late interaction.
It essentially calculates a similarity matrix between all the query token
vectors and all the patch level embeddings and finds the maximum patch
similarity for a query token.
In this example, we say that, okay, we have four patches with vector
representation and we have two query tokens and then we, so water here is
represented as a vector one, four, a two dimensional vector, then we calculate
the dot product between the water vector with all the patch vectors.
So that in this case is four dot products.
And then we pick the maximum score to represent the score for water.
And then we do the same thing for recycle.
There's a different vector and those are contextualized.
So the, if you change the order of those words, the vector representation
will be different.
Same thing, you calculate all the dot products and then you find the maximum
and the final late interaction or maximum is the, is the sum of these two.
And if you have six query tokens, then you will have to do this
process like six times.
So that's the kind of overview.
The great thing about this is that it gives you explainability on
a per query token basis, right?
If you map everything of the entire page into one vector and all the
query tokens into one vector, you can simply just say something, okay, it
was retrieved, we have no idea why we can just hand wave in the direction
of how the model was trained with this late interaction or maximum, we can
actually inspect what are the areas of the page that each of the tokens,
query tokens are attended to in the scoring.
So it gives you also, in addition to being a quite good retrieval model,
it also gives you the expert aspect, which can be handy in some cases.
And then theoretically, you just perform this.
If you have a collection of PDF pages, you score all of them, the same process
as you do with the regular search, right?
But there are ways to optimize this kind of process using different types of
techniques, but you have this scoring that you calculate the maximum for this
page, for this page, for this page, for this page, for the same query input.
And then essentially just sort them by this score, the late interaction or
the maximum score.
That's essentially the same thing that you're using with Elasticseq or Vespa
or others, you're scoring these documents and the score is a proxy
for the relevancy to the query.
Then there are techniques to accelerate this to avoid having to linearly
score all of the documents in the entire collection.
And so where did these vectors come from, right?
When you have the polygama model, you have to have label data to
train these representations.
So what the authors did in the paper is that they took the polygama model, the
base model, and they froze it, meaning that during training, they don't update
the parameters, then they have this adapter, almost like a LoRa adapter.
And that's what is trained during the training process.
And this kind of updates the weights, but in order to do this, you have relevancy
and the relevancy data is typically a query, a page, and if that page is
relevant to the query or not.
And then you have typically 10 to 20,000 examples like that, that you can actually
train, and this also gives you the possibility to fine tune polygama for
your specific domain, potentially using synthetic data.
And how does this compare with traditional methods, right?
Chunking, DM25, vector search, and they also introduced this Vidoor benchmark,
where they compare with different other types of models on different types of
datasets, this table is a little bit, it's a handful, but you can notice, for
example, the blue highlights datasets that essentially regular text extraction
methods doesn't work at all.
Because these datasets contains infographics or embeddable images that
you are not able to extract text from.
So in the result table here, they compare a traditional keyword search
scoring mechanism, DM25, that you will find in historical search engines and
compare it with relatively good embedding model from BGE, call M3.
So you get some numbers there for NGCG, then they compare using both text
extraction plus OCR, then you can see that you suddenly get results because
then you're able to extract some of the text.
The bottom line here is that call poly out before these different types of
methods on these datasets and with a large, rather large margin, I would say.
And then on the right side, there's like these different datasets.
They're not so big.
So it's like not millions of pages.
And also it's, so most of the datasets have like 500 documents.
So it's, that's a weakness, I would say, with the benchmark, but in terms of
relevancy, you go for the text extraction, you go from NGCG score of around 6.6.
Oh, sorry, 66 and you go to 81.
So that's a rather significant improvement.
Even for the datasets where BM25 and embedding model is also doing quite well.
If you, for example, look at health and you can see a standard BM25 gives you 82.
But call poly that is just operating on the visual representations gives you 94.
Right.
So even if you don't have a lot of figures or things like that, it's
actually working pretty well.
But still this is on your data.
Sorry, on this benchmark, you have to figure out how it performs.
If you want to have a little on your task and your, your domain,
I think that's, that's important.
And these are some samples from this benchmark, like what type of documents
are in the, in the samples gives you an idea of what the data looks like.
All right.
So it's quite complex.
Some of these, these documents more samples.
So there's like a big diff mix of PDF pages.
There's some of them are clearly like scanned records, even with handwriting.
And some are like fancy financial reports with lots of different visual information.
Yeah.
So it covered like BLM's call poly.
I talked about the scoring function.
I can talk a little bit about how to scale copoly to if you have millions of documents,
right?
Because as we said here, you have a lot of vectors, right?
Because each of the pages are represented by 1030 vectors.
Right.
So that's a lot of vectors.
And this is the math involved in the, in the copoly maximum calculation.
So they compute because you calculate all these dot product is it's quadratic.
Almost like the attention mechanism in a regular large language model.
Storage part scales with the number of documents you have.
And the number of cash vectors and the vector denied.
So these are the kind of parameters.
And of course you have to do inference as well, but I ignore that.
You have to run inference with the actual model to obtain the vectors.
But I usually deal with the things that this after that.
So I ignore it.
So there are a couple of things you can do to scale this.
You can one, you can reduce the number of patch vectors and you don't have the
explainability feature because then you're saying that in the image, there's a lot
of areas that is not really important.
That is why that is overlapping.
So you're basically clustering them so that you can represent one page with fewer
vectors.
You can also reduce the position of the vector.
So you have in a normal way, you have a lot of float vectors, four bytes per value.
You can reduce this and that reduces storage.
For instance, you can use a bit even instead of a full float, you can use a bit that
gives you a 30 X reduction in the memory or storage footprint.
You can also scale the compute by replacing the float dot products with a binary
similarity metrics, meaning, for example, using an inverted hamming.
And this also improves compute by four X.
So that's how you can scale this and make it more efficient.
And this compares performance latency using float representations versus using bit
representations.
So you can almost four times faster.
But the most important part here is that you reduce the storage requirements by 32 X.
And this is, I think, is cool because it turns out you don't need all those float
information to encode this data accurately.
And in the call on the in the VDOR benchmark, doing this kind of quantization doesn't
really hurt relevancy accuracy.
So when you start doing things like that, you have to also evaluate like if there's
an impact on the metrics and then you can use approximate techniques like put this into
a nearest neighbor index and do kind of a cascade retrieval or face retrieval and
ranking. So I won't touch on that in detail.
You'll find information about that from multiple different vendors of how you can
put this together and also invest, but you can do this so that you can scale even to
two billion scale data sets.
So I'll talk a little bit about RAG with VLM because with VLM you can build
the entire RAG pipeline.
But the thing is that then you have to have kind of a visual capable LLM for the
generative stake of the RAG pipeline.
So there you typically use Colpaili as your kind of candidate retrieval.
And then you retrieve pages and then you put top K or into the generative model and
have it summarize what you can do.
Here's an example of a RAG where I use the Gemini AI Studio, upload it one big PDF.
That PDF is like 35,000 tokens and ask it the question.
Right. And internally, they're using also the same technique when you're uploading a
PDF, they're converting it to images and giving all those images to the model.
And nowadays they have longer context window than before.
So if you have a single PDF, you might not and you can afford it, then you might not
have to have Colpaili or retrieval stage at all.
But if you have many, many PDFs that you want to retrieve over, then it becomes relevant
to filter information and not input everything to the generative stake.
And also there's an interesting benchmark called MML long benchmark.
And they find that VLM are better at answering questions about pages and complex pages when
they're giving a visual representation of the image instead of going through text
shrunking OCR pipeline.
So I think that's also interesting that they can actually answer questions better when
they're giving a screenshot of the page than when they are giving extracted text extracted.
Yeah, I'm more on the question is more like, does it work from my data or how does this
compare with ABCD?
You have to evaluate.
The model is snapshot trained on certain specific data that might not match your domain.
But there is an interesting direction, and that is to fine tune Colpaili by using
syntax queries.
I think Jason, I think some of the first tutorial material you had was around synthetic
queries. So that's essentially taking your corpus, running it to a capable VLM model
and have it generate questions about the pages and then use that as the relevancy data to
fine tune the model.
So that's how you can go about adopting Colpaili or the Colpaili architecture to your
domain. And better if you actually have real production queries, you can use that too.
And nowadays with more capable VLMs, it's also easier and also lower cost.
It's also easier to generate good relevancy data that you can actually use to tune or
fine tune Colpaili for your domain and your type of documents.
Can't you use just a frontier model for this?
Yes, you can use a frontier model for this as long as you can fit everything into the
context window of that model.
Colpaili is about taking the capabilities of the VLM and scaling that to larger scale of
collections where you cannot really upload everything to the frontier model.
Right. That's the case.
I think it's a very promising direction.
I'm hoping to see more checkpoints.
I'm hoping to see more embedding providers provide embedding models for specific domains,
for specific file formats based on VLMs.
So I'm hoping to see like legal PDF embedding model based on VLMs, like more general
checkpoint. I was hoping for that, but I think Voyage was in that direction.
But they got acquired by MongoDB this week.
So I'm hoping to see someone else step up.
And there are a lot of new VLMs, new models coming out.
But of course, this is also you have to run Colpaili, then you have to run it with
Transformers library.
So there's some set of calls.
It's not like easily available behind a nice looking API.
That's probably the biggest downside of Colpaili.
But Voyage, their latest embedding model, is also able to encode images in a pretty
good way of PDF documents, but still not perfect, but it's a step in the right
direction. I also have some resources and you can check out.
I did a lot of content around Colpaili because I was really excited about this
direction to be able to search in this information without going through chunking,
embedding and all those messy processes.
So I was quite excited there for some time.
And if you want to, you can follow me on Twitter.
I'm pretty responsive on Twitter.
My handle is there.
And that's how I got to know Jason as well.
Thank you for having me here.
I see the chat is full.
So I really welcome all questions.
I hope I can think through some of the questions.
Yeah, let's run through some of these.
I am curious, even now, there's no single vendor that just allows you to upload a
bunch of PDFs and be able to do retrieval, right?
It's still quite manual or have the cloud providers to support this?
Yeah.
I mean, there are some high level services, right?
That's more in the kind of enterprise search, glean, those type of like more
like high level services.
And then you have things like unstructured or that takes care of that part, but not
the vector part, not the retrieval part and not the ranking part.
So you have to, you have to glue together quite a few things if you want to kind of
have control over how you do retrieval and fine tune and re-ranking and business
logic and whatnot.
So that's the thing you have.
If you really need that kind of build that type of thing, then you cannot really
use glean or they don't give you the option to tune things or adapt it to your
domain.
Makes sense.
The top voted question, I think you answered this somewhat around just whether or
not we can fit everything into context, but with the latest improvements in
Gemini, like flash, for example, and other models, do you think Copali and these
kinds of tools are still so relevant?
I think they're relevant because even if you, sorry, there's a lot of use cases
that are dead related to rag because of long context, right?
No doubt about it.
Single PDF, just upload it to Gemini and do whatever you want to.
Right.
But then there are cases where you have larger document collections.
That's the key point, right?
If you have a millions of PDFs or even 10,000 PDFs, and even if you could fit 10,000
PDFs into the context window, it's also you pay for the tokens.
You also have quite significant latency, even with prefix caching.
So I think it's still also relevant for lower volume, but like a couple of PDFs.
Yeah.
I talked to some company the other day and they were, they had like 3000
documents and I said, yeah, I'm not sure if you need a vector search or a search
engine at all for this, because you have, don't have very strict latency requirements.
And the cost is quite low.
You don't have a lot of volume.
So why don't you use the prefix feature of the language models?
And there's like, okay.
Plus I think with reasoning models as well, you use some of that context
window or output as well, that you can fit more instructions and
examples and things like that.
Yeah.
There's one thing that's for sure.
I think the context windows will just increase.
So, but I'm not sure if they will increase to web scale data sets.
Um, second question here is, I don't think I know exactly what it's asking, but are
there any benchmarks for PDF embedding models specifically for charts and graphs?
I know like Reducto has come up with some models.
I don't know if Gemini has like certain evals on reading complex charts and graphs,
but I'm curious to hear more about what you think.
I think the Vidor benchmark that Copali introduced is at least one of the
benchmarks that includes complex formats.
I'm not aware of that many others, other benchmarks out there.
Yeah.
So you're dropping some links in the chat.
Yeah.
Cause we get all put into the same, same page.
Let me see.
We have 54 team and SS.
Let's do maybe like one or two more questions from the Slido and then
we go to live questions.
So people want to raise their hands if we do that now and we'll get to those.
Yeah, that would be fantastic.
Yeah.
So what do you think of the main trade-offs are using Copali?
So for example, is it less reliable in some cases?
Is it more difficult to verify information in other cases?
I'm personally really curious if there's specific industries you've seen that
work well with Copali and ones that don't.
Yeah.
So Copali is a checkpoint in time.
I see it.
I see it.
I'm more excited about the direction than the actual checkpoint, right?
So the checkpoint is there.
It's trained on the data that the researchers gathered.
So it doesn't necessarily translate to very legal, heavy tax if, or special,
specific type of financial or insurance reports.
And the key there, I think, is to use synthetic query generation and try to,
to fine tune the model for, for optimal performance.
So I will not generalize and say that it works in this and that it works best for
data types that looks like the data that it was trained on.
So you have to look a little bit in the actual benchmark to see.
Sorry for a long-winded answer.
No, it's all very, very helpful.
Albert, do you have a question?
Yeah.
Thanks, Joe.
Really love this talk.
I had a question about the future of latent interaction.
So I noticed you said that you can create like nearest neighbor index for the images.
We're using a Cobra in production and we do like a BN20, nearest neighbor
and then BN25 and at the last stage is Cobra.
But do you see a future where we can do Cobra?
Like, I know it's hard to scale, but could there perhaps be a way to compress
the tensor into like, into a single vector?
Cause you can also fine tune Cobra, right?
And I'm assuming that's a more granular way of fine tuning.
Yeah.
It's a fantastic question.
Actually in the talk, I talked about this embedding model called BGEM3.
The unique thing about that model is that they allow you to obtain three
different representations of the input.
A sparse representation, a single dense representation and a
multi-vector dense representation.
So with that type of model, it's obvious to use the single dense representation
and put that into the nearest neighbor index and do retrieval with that
representation and then use the copolysingles, the multi-vectors in the reranking layer.
Unfortunately, that approach haven't really caught my mainstream.
So I, but I would love to see more in that direction where you jointly train
both copoly multi-vector representation or whole-vector multi-vector representation
and a single vector representation.
Yeah.
I'll look into that.
That seems very exciting.
Hmm.
Yeah.
The M3 papers is a work reading, I think.
The only downside there is that they didn't do any kind of dimensionality reduction.
So they still retain a lot of float vectors per, sorry, float values for their
multi-vector copoly representation.
Or Colbert to be precise.
I guess I'm going to selfishly ask a question here.
Like when it comes to these kind of joint models like Colbert, Copoly with these
bi-incodable, what company do you think is, like, whose responsibility is it to
build these kinds of things?
Like maybe it's a Cohere, but I don't know if they do a lot of like PDF processing.
Is it going to be like a Reducto and a LamaPars where they're going to own things end to end?
I'm really curious what you think about the ecosystem so far.
I think my favorite, I'm not sure if I'm allowed to say that, but I was excited
about Voyage, maybe because of the people and the cool name, I don't know.
They were going in this direction.
There's another that I'm hoping will step up that is Nomik.
Cohere also has embedding models that can accept both text and image.
So you can go the route, but I think there's room for more players in this market.
And there's to offer this kind of more high level embedding models for
different file formats and domains.
Someone wants to explore that and pitch it to VC and you can say,
Joe thinks it's a good idea.
Yeah.
I definitely thought about thinking, starting something earlier, like maybe in 2023,
but the market was pretty tough and pretty challenging then.
Yeah.
Paul's question is pretty interesting.
Copoly's paper uses NDCG at five.
Do you think our ranking metric is a good fit with a task of question and extraction?
I think it is.
Yeah, this is also, this is always a good question.
Most of the information retrieval papers focus on precision and
this is G is a precision oriented metric.
You might argue that in the case where we have a generative state, that we
are, should look more towards recall and are we retrieving all the relevant information?
So it's a valid question, I think.
But there's usually correlation between those two in some sense as well.
And regularly when you talk about recall, it's really difficult as well when you
have a large collection because you don't really know all the relevant
information in the index.
That's really what in the information retrieval sense, what recall is about.
Do you actually find all the relevant documents that are annotated relevant,
but then we don't have that luxury in practice.
Paul, I saw that you omitted.
Do you want to follow up?
Yeah, I think maybe you already stated this, but in finance applications, where
you're really extracting a table, you're interested in a particular cell, and
you see in DCG5, it was not, we need the actual table and for that there've been
these other metrics, tree edit distances.
It just seems like in the entire field of extraction, there's different
subgroups that are doing very, very different things against different metrics.
What do you think of these various camps?
I think so the COPOLI and the metrics there are really focusing about, here's
the question, here's a collection of documents, where are you able when you're
doing the retrieval with this type of method, where are you placing the relevant
document in the ranked list?
That's all.
There's nothing else, right?
It doesn't care about if you can actually run that and extract and do another
metric and you mentioned table extraction, things like that.
Would be in my view, in my opinion, for the later stage, right?
More into the, in the rag pipeline, you have retrieve and then you generate
or you retrieve and then you extract, right?
So it tries to measure how well the, just the retrieval part.
So yeah, as you said, it's a basic thing, but it's also a nice way of
just measuring the retrieval part.
And I think that's also important, like overall to try to measure each of the
things that you have in your system, right?
You have the retrieval, you have the generative stage.
If you have something else, you can, if you have query classification, you
could do some evaluation of that.
So you can quantify, you know, if I change my query routing, rewriting in this way,
you know, does the overall improve or not?
And yes, it's complex.
Thanks.
Any more live questions?
We've got four minutes left.
We probably do one more live question before we wrap things up.
Well, let me just do one more and then I'll let you go.
I see the glass of wine in the background.
It's been a long week.
Nice.
Oh, this is a question that might, might be interesting to hear your thoughts about.
Like what are the best practice for handing things like PII when it comes to
this kind of retrieval and representations and whatnot.
I don't really have an answer for this myself.
So I'm just very curious what your thoughts are.
Yeah.
I think that's a really great question.
And if you, yeah, I would say copality doesn't really care or take care of that at all.
Right.
So that's one of the things where you might want to keep both kind of type of complex
pipelines.
I know there are APIs from different services that provides this sort of service.
I think that's really good argument against not building your entire pipeline.
Only using the visual representations because the visual representation, I don't
know if there are that many services or techniques that can identify PII.
I think the security level stuff is something that all these different companies will
slowly develop solutions for.
Maybe a vendor will pop up in that space, but yeah, I was very curious about your
answer.
Cool.
I think with that, we can probably wrap it up.
Joe, thank you so much for staying up late and getting some questions answered.
And yeah, I think it's funny because both your talk and Anton's talk from
Kromo all really focused on just like fine tuning your own vetting models.
So I'm really glad that more people are sort of talking about that.
I feel like last year was very esoteric and maybe scary concept, but now it's
been a lot more popular.
That's good to hear.
All right.
Thank you for having me.
Thank you everyone.
See you next week.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Thank you.
