Before you go on introductions, I think the one question I like to ask everyone here is,
what is the one thing that we should be paying attention to and what is the one thing we're
going to take away from this talk?
Yeah, I think the one thing, the one big idea I really think everyone should walk away from
with this is probably along the lines that the browser is the most natural in the age
of web apps, the browser is the most natural system to use in order to shuffle data to
and from other systems, particularly when it comes to LLMs.
And that doesn't make sense at first, but when you see the kind of problems that we're
facing, you slowly realize, hey, wait a second, this is a much nicer way of getting around
some of the limitations of having to bring data to something like an LLM or an agent.
Got it, got it.
Great.
Well, let's jump in.
Cool.
Thank you.
So yeah, hi everyone.
I'm Michael Strivett.
I'm head of AI at OpenDB.
This talk, like we've just mentioned, is about how we approach RAG in a slightly different
way for interesting reasons that you might not have thought of in the financial world.
And yeah, it's kind of how do you do RAG but without traditional APIs where you have your
agent that will actually end up hitting some kind of API to pull data in from an external
service.
We say we don't want to do that.
Instead, why don't we just use the browser directly with our web application, OpenDB
workspace, in order to allow you to do things like connect data that is running on local
host, for example, to an agent that is running somewhere else.
So yeah, let's jump right in.
So, who is OpenDB?
We are a very interesting company and a very fun place to work.
We have a whole bunch of different teams at OpenDB.
I obviously run the AI team.
And we have a couple of theses, I guess, or hypotheses that comes with what we think are
the guiding principles for AI and what we wanted to achieve.
So before we even talk about the product and what we do, we kind of really believe that
human plus AI or human and AI is going to be a lot better than human or AI.
Our vision of the future has got very little to do with AI actually replacing humans in
day-to-day tasks.
We see this much more as a collaborative kind of process.
And for this reason, we've called our agents co-pilots historically.
And for us, we really think that the symbiosis between human and AI, where the AI kind of
makes a human better or offloads some of the tasks that a human would have to do, is going
to be the future.
The other thing that we have with our application is anything the human can do that AI must
be able to do and vice versa.
So for example, if the AI is able to retrieve a certain piece of data by generating certain
input arguments to a widget that contains this information, the human needs to be able
to do the same thing.
We don't want the AI to be able to do something that provides an answer, but there's no way
for the human to recreate the process.
And we have the inverse as well.
If a human is able to inspect some kind of data like a chart or manipulate the data in
order to draw some kind of conclusion, the AI needs to be able to do the same thing.
So we have this idea of one unified interface that allows humans to do everything and the
AI can kind of leverage that same interface.
The other thing is that the data should flow freely into an AI system.
So as you'll see in a second with OpenBB Workspace, we allow you to bring in your own data sources
that you can then view and build dashboards from.
Our philosophy is that, well, if I integrate the data, the agent should immediately have
access to that data.
There's none of this, I have to integrate it twice or how do I get that data to flow
into the agent so that I can derive insights or query it or answer questions.
We have one place, you bring in your data and you get the agent interaction for free.
And we primarily target the financial industry.
As you'll see when I talk about the products a bit more, this extends beyond that, but
we're primarily focused on finance.
So this is kind of what OpenBB Workspace looks like.
Essentially you have a series of dashboards, you have a whole bunch of different data sources.
Here we have some news, we have a watch list for a various bunch of companies that we're
taking a look at.
We're looking at company news, maybe the price target.
On the right hand side of the application, we have OpenBB Co-Pilot.
You can bring in your own agents as well, which is something we'll talk about in a second
to explain how that works.
And basically it's just you can ask questions, get answers.
We produce things like charts if you want as an output.
And we also have full blown citation.
So in this case, we use the price target widget over here that contains the data.
Again, everything that the human can do and we can manipulate input arguments, we can
look at different kinds of data, we can do analysis, all of that the agent can do as
well.
And then you can pull all of this information, pull it out and create new widgets from it
as well.
So you have this kind of nice circular flow.
It's a very organic research process.
And all of these different widgets that you see, you can write your own and bring these
in as custom backends, custom data backends.
Do analysis in this way.
And so this is kind of just to give you a sense of what OpenBB Workspace is about.
It is a really, really amazing AI driven analysis tool for predominantly financial data.
But we kind of treat this as an extremely capable platform rather than just a product.
So yes, you have multimodal inputs and outputs with the agents.
So you can look at things like PDFs and CSVs and images and unstructured data like earnings
transcripts and structured data like, you know, historical stock price, stock prices
over time.
You can do all kinds of deep analysis using the agent on this.
But where we really see value is that you can bring your own data.
We see this with a lot of our kind of big enterprise customers.
What they're interested in is they already have all their data.
They're not looking for any kind of data provisioning.
So they want a way to bring that in so they can analyze it in a lovely way.
And now we've also recently launched the ability to write your own apps that run on OpenBB
Workspace, which allows you to give a much more customizable kind of experience to your
users and of course be allowed to bring your own agent as well.
So you have a whole bunch of data sources that we kind of give to you out of the box.
But we also have a way for you to bring in your own.
And there's a whole bunch of apps.
And this is a rapidly growing ecosystem where people are contributing the apps that they
find useful.
And then you just basically copy paste in a link and away you go.
And then you have access to one of these apps that you can then use and do all of this analysis
that you would typically do yourself in conjunction with an agent.
But as all things go, there's a catch.
And the catch is that we don't want to distribute your data.
So if you're, I don't know, building a crypto, per a crypto custom backend that you now want
share with users and allow them to use, we don't want to be responsible for distributing
your data.
The reasons for this is it's really resource intensive.
If you have a lot of data flowing through your system, it ends up costing a lot of money.
The other thing that we're really cautious of and something you have to be really careful
of is there's a lot of legal fuzziness around what counts as distribution.
If you've purchased a data license somewhere, are you allowed to distribute it in this way?
It's not always clear exactly how that works.
And so we don't want to be kind of stepping on landmines, legal landmines here.
And the other thing is that the data needs to be reachable over a network.
So if I have my agent that we provide for you, how's it going to get access to that
data?
Well, it's going to have to be able to hit that API point directly.
And that's not always the most feasible thing, especially if you think about big enterprises.
To take a note out of Raymond Hittinger's book, surely there must be a better way.
And so the idea that we have at OpenBB and the way we build the workspace is we ask why
can't the browser itself be the data layer?
Think about this for just a second.
We have a local first web app.
So the OpenBB workspace that I showed you, it predominantly runs locally on your machine
just in your browser.
So the client code is distributed by the web, but the data doesn't actually flow through
some back end server at all.
It directly speaks to your browser running on your machine through the client code.
The main benefit of this is we don't have to distribute your data and you have really
excellent security because you have to be on the same network as where the data is available.
So if you think you're operating in some kind of cloud environment or some kind of on-prem
situation, you can physically air gap the system to make sure that only when you're
on this network will your app be able to have access to that data.
And the bonus is that you can actually serve data from local hosts running on your machine,
which is fantastic for development.
You don't have to deploy this somewhere where it's reachable via some kind of URL or IP
address.
You don't have to worry about any of that.
Everything just flows directly through your browser.
And you have a bunch of really nice downstream effects of this.
So how does all of this kind of piece together and work?
So here you can basically take a look at our architecture, have a very simplified version,
but you have on your machine, you have OpenBB running in your browser and you can have a
custom data back end running on local host that's connected to this.
Or maybe you have a custom data back end that is connected or available via your network.
And this is how the data essentially flows, right?
We don't have some back end servers that fetches the data and sends it through to you.
This is all up to you.
And the question is, well, if we want to connect an agent to this data, how do we do it?
If this agent lives on some kind of external network somewhere like ours, how do we kind
of get our data to have access to this?
And the trick is, well, we're already treating the browser as a data layer.
Why don't we just treat the browser as a crossroad, an intermediary, an interconnect that can connect
to the agent to your data as well?
And this is kind of the idea that we settled on and have really developed out and it ends
up being really useful.
You have client-side function execution for an agent that actually doesn't live locally
on your machine at all.
It might live somewhere else.
Maybe it runs in your company's infrastructure.
Maybe it's the one we host of our end.
But we connect it to data that is available only on your local host or on your network.
So the way this works is essentially you have a query request that the front end application
will make to our agent that specifies the messages and also the widgets that are available
that contain data, their descriptions, the parameters that can be set.
If the agent decides it requires this information in order to answer the query that you have,
it can submit a function call back to the front end that contains which widgets you
want to have access to and also which input arguments to use.
So for example, maybe I've got the widget set to Tesla, but I want to query the earnings
transcripts for Apple.
We allow the agent to kind of change that.
And then you have this little function calling handler that actually runs in your browser
locally.
And what this does is this can then go and interpret this function call, execute it,
and fetch the data, and then respond with a follow-up query that contains both your
messages and the result back to the agent.
And so basically you just use what we call the AG2 protocol as a way of connecting an
agent to data via the browser, via something that's running locally.
And this agent protocol is what basically allows us to work.
And I'd like to talk about this a little bit now.
But I guess before I do, the downstream effects of this approach are really big because take
a look here.
If you only integrate your data once into OpenBD workspace, but once you've done that,
the agent itself doesn't have to know anything about how to access this data.
It has to be something really, really simple.
It has a unified interface.
It just has to specify the widget UUID and the input arguments that it wants.
You can choose not to generate input arguments if you don't want to, you can just reuse the
ones that are currently set.
But the point is you now have this nice separation of concerns where you integrate the data once
and your data is now instantly available to either our agent if you want to use ours or
your agent if you want to use yours, no matter where it's run, whether it's on your machine or not.
And so when we were designing this agent protocol, we cared about a couple of really
important things to us.
It has to be easy to debug, easy to test, easy to reason about.
This is really important if we want people to build their own custom agents.
If we want to make our lives easier for ourselves, it has to be something that is easy to understand,
easy to make sense of.
We want to use standards that people are already familiar with, so we're not going to roll
out some kind of new protocol that nobody understands how it works.
Sorry, MCP.
And we also want to try, we don't want to be clever.
Engineers tend to get themselves into a lot of trouble when they try and be clever, so
we want to have something be as boneheaded simple as possible.
And so basically the resulting API is stateless.
So your agent or our agent doesn't have to handle any state at all.
It's all handled by OpenBD Workspace.
So this is fantastic for debugging, for reasoning about your problem.
It's easy to do unit tests because you just have to hit it with one, with a payload and
it will do the right thing.
It is reproducible, which is a really big deal.
It doesn't require a lot of storage as a result.
It just makes everything easy when you don't have to worry about state.
It also uses REST.
So post, get request, that kind of thing, which is familiar to everyone.
Everyone who does any kind of web app development will be very familiar with REST APIs and
it uses service sent events, which have become the standards for communicating with other
LIMs.
And the other thing is that we published this protocol.
So we have, it's available here on GitHub.
It's called the OpenBD Custom Manager SDK.
But basically the entire protocol is available.
It's PIP installable.
We just made this public yesterday, although it's been on PiPi for a couple of weeks.
And this is what we actually use for our OpenBD Co-Pilot as well.
And we just say to everyone, hey, just use it.
Build your own agent.
We support it.
And so all of the inputs, the outputs and the models and stuff like that is available here
for the protocol for free for you to take a look at and to use.
And what's lovely about it is it's actually really simple.
It's got a couple of very minimal primitives that allow you to do all of the important
stuff that you care about.
So for example, if you want to string message chunks back to the front end, you just, from
an execution loop, you just yield message chunks.
If you want to yield reasoning steps, so we actually allow you to provide digital status
updates kind of like what ChatGPT or Cord will do if they're searching the web.
It kind of gives you information about what it's, what's doing next, which widgets we're
accessing, what kind of queries we're making.
That's also just a single yield away.
You just yield the reasoning step.
If you want to fetch widget data from OpenBD workspace from the front end, well, it's just,
you know, you just yield this, we specify the widgets and the input arguments that you
want. Same with producing citations.
Maybe you want to return a table like the screenshot that I had earlier.
You want to yield a chart and can do pie charts, line charts, bar charts, scatter charts,
whatever you're interested in.
It's all these really simple kind of building blocks that you just figure out what your
outputs need to be and you just do them and there you go.
So this is what it looks like.
If you have an existing agent and you want to make it OpenBD compatible, because of this
protocol that we have, you basically just need to accept this request payload as an
input into your endpoints and you just, inside of your execution loop, you need to stream
back SSEs and you just yield from this execution loop.
Simple as that.
And all of this code, we have examples that show you how this works.
You know, it's available if you want to just go on GitHub and just search for OpenBD and
you'll find all of our stuff.
And yeah, if you want to fetch widget data, it's literally just as simple as yielding
the right request and we'll take care of everything else for you.
So we kind of have two types of functions.
You have locally executed functions, which is what you're probably used to.
This is where the function is executed in the same environment or logical space, computer,
if you will, where the function is called.
This is what everyone's used to.
But now we kind of have this idea of a remotely executed function, which we use to fetch data
from the browser where we actually have a little mini interpreter that runs in the browser
that can execute these function calls.
Because nobody said anything about where the function call needs to be executed.
And so this is how we ended up solving this problem.
And the separation of concerns is actually really nice, like I alluded to earlier, because
you basically don't have to worry about having your agents understand how to call data.
Your data team and your agent team can actually work completely separately because we have
that if you bring in your data onto OpenBV Workspace once so that it's human readable,
it immediately becomes AI readable.
And so the separation of concerns makes building agents and integrating data into them so much
easier because the only thing you care about essentially is what's coming in and what you
need to send out.
So it's super unopinionated because it's just a protocol that you have to yield events from.
It works with any AI system, whether you're using God forbid, Lang chain and stuff like
that.
But if you let's say you're using Lang chain or OpenAI SDK directly or Anthropics SDK directly
or Google GenAIs SDK directly, it will work with all of these because you just need to
yield the right events.
You need to format the messages and yield the right events.
The agents don't need to manage any of the state.
They don't need to understand how APIs for the various data sources work.
They only need to understand how to pass the requests and yield the function calls when
they do that.
So it's just a single kind of yield statement away.
And it's easy to make your existing agent compatible.
And so basically the big takeaway is, well, treat the browser as this super nice universal
data protocol that you can bring your data into without it having to flow through some
kind of back end and then just do the same thing with your agents as well.
And so, yeah, that's kind of the short and sweet of it.
So we're OpenBB.
If you want to get in touch with what we're doing and stuff like that, feel free to send
us an email.
We have a generous free tier, including the AI.
So feel free to try it out.
And we're not restricting you.
You can bring your own data, your own apps, your own agents.
And yeah, we have all the compliance and things that we need for enterprise ready deployment
too.
So that's it.
So thank you very much.
And I think now would be a good time for folks to ask questions.
We can have a discussion.
And I'm more than happy to answer any other random questions, Jason, that you have as
well.
Sounds good.
Sounds good.
I guess my understanding, the way that I feel about this right now, it kind of feels like
what MZP has been trying to do to some smaller extent.
It feels like it's actually way less scope than what the protocol is doing.
And a lot of it is actually building around the browser versus the client and some widget
you got.
But could you just add a little bit more color, especially because I think MZP came out maybe
around the same...
I mean, what is the AI timeline really, but around the same time?
Yeah.
So we ended up building this...
We ended up building this long before MZP was even an idea and before Anthropic even
published their blog post for their announced MZP and that they were giving this away for
free.
So this predates that.
You're right that it's a lot simpler.
The problem...
And we've considered, like, can we use MZP for this?
The problem with MZP is there is a baked-in assumption...
It's a little bit subtle, but there is a baked-in assumption that the function call will be
executed by the MZP server.
And so that implies that the data that you need to have access to needs to be accessible
by the MZP server.
So if your MZP server is running on your local machine, that's fine because you might be
able to have access to the data that you want to share.
But if that MZP server is being hosted by us and we just want you to plug our agent
You won't be able to access data that's flowing through...
Like that lives on your local host.
And so for us, that was really important is making sure that you can only access the data
when you're on the right network or on the same machine.
And so MZP doesn't solve that problem, although it solves a bunch of other problems.
I see.
It sounds like a lot of this is actually around governance and access controls and sort of
the things that are important for OpenBB, which I think is also probably a pretty good
segue to the other question, which is, how do you avoid mixing like confidential data,
data that your users might bring in with other public data around these workflows?
What kind of like tools have you had to build to overcome those?
So for us, we pretty much solve this in the enterprise sense.
The way in which we solve this is we basically deploy stuff on-prem and we give them a proper
air-gapped system.
So the only data that's coming in will be data that is working on their network where
they have things fired, fire walled away in a VPC.
So that's one way in which you can solve the problem.
And besides that, we don't actually distribute any of the data.
So it is entirely up to you to decide how that uses.
So because everything flows through a local browser app that's running in your browser,
it's completely up to you what you choose to bring in.
So we just say, look, here's the platform.
It's just a platform.
If you're going to be silly and publish your custom backing for people to use publicly,
like that's on you, so don't do that.
But if you want it to misbehave, I suppose you could.
But we obviously just say, look, just stick it in the workspace and then you're responsible
for how you choose to distribute your data.
Makes sense.
I'll save the landing chain question for later.
But let me do that as well, which is, could you share a little bit more about your eval's
pipeline?
How do you validate whether the user query is being used appropriately by the agent and
executed in the right way?
So this is a really, really good question.
So first of all, what makes evaluation extremely hard for us in particular is when you're
doing something like financial analysis, it's very hard to validate whether the answer
is correct or incorrect.
This isn't like generating code where you have a unit test that the generated code needs
to satisfy.
And that's something that would make this process a lot easier.
When you have very nonspecific answers, so for example, what do you think the possible
outcomes could be for a company based on this and this and this data?
It's not easy to rate that.
For us, we do, in terms of answers, we actually rely on our users to give a thumbs up and
a thumbs down.
It's not the best solution in the world, the reason being you only typically get responses
from about 1% of users.
So what we do is we take a, at least from a, if you're scared of hallucinations, what
we do is we take a, we say, well, it's going to be hard to control that.
So we take a radical observability approach.
So every piece of data that the agent interacts with produces an answer with, fetches, summarizes,
queries, whatever it is, we have a full citation trace that we return with every single answer.
So you can see exactly which input arguments were used, which widget it was, we highlight
the specific widget.
If it isn't on the dashboard, you can click a button, we can add it to the dashboard for
you with the input arguments that were used.
So for the human, we make it as easy as possible to actually observe and analyze and make sure
that things are correct from that point of view.
For us, what we really spend a lot of time doing is we fit with users and we check with
them and we do vibe checks, which a lot of people say, oh, so you're just relying on
vibe checks.
You know what?
Vibe checks are surprisingly high information.
And you can often tell a lot more by taking a look at what the agent saw and the answer
provided and fix things that way when you see things going wrong.
Sometimes you just have to hop in and actually take a look at those traces.
We spend a lot of time doing that.
That makes sense.
I guess on that line of the citation traces, what kind of tooling have you been using?
I think a lot of people have questions and thoughts on vendors, for example.
What kind of toolings have you enjoyed working with?
So for us citation-wise and to handle all the data that's coming in and coming out,
it's a custom system that we wrote.
No one is really that great at doing citations.
And obviously, because we control the data plane, we need to be able to map back to that
somehow.
So we have to do something custom.
In terms of monitoring, we currently, the only really off-the-shelf tool that we use
is two libraries that we really like.
The one is by Jack Collins.
It's called Magentic, M-A-G-E-N-T-I-C.
I think it's the nicest LLM framework that's out there.
It's very minimal.
It's a shallow wrap over these.
It allows you to control how things get executed.
I think it's the right abstraction for how LLMs work.
So I recommend people check it out.
It's full of great ideas.
And then we use LogFi to do our tracing, just because it's really fast.
It has a nice user interface and it's open telemetry compatible, which if you care about
telemetry, you'll understand why that's a really important deal and why it's important
to have.
I'll also just make a plug, which is that if you're part of the students of the course,
then I think LogFi, we have a $500 promotion with LogFi.
We'll plug there if any of these people want to try these things out.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
I think open telemetry as a standard is really, really valuable, which kind of brings me to
maybe the next question is, what were your experiences with lane changing?
Why was it the God forbid?
So I like poking fun at lane change.
Look, I think I started lane change.
I think most people did.
The gift that lane change I think gave to developers around the world is this idea of
it's not just a one and done request for a completion to an LLM.
You can actually chain these things together and you can get quite interesting behavior
from it.
I think that is a really significant popularization of an idea.
The problem, not problem, I guess the critique I have of lane change is the same one most
people have when you try to work with it, which is it's heavily abstracted.
It makes a lot of strong assumptions about how your business logic should work and it
ends up solving the average of a lot of problems.
The issue with solving the average of a lot of problems is if this is my problem and this
is my problem and this is someone else's problem, the average is right here, which means you
solve no one's problem.
Lang chain is great for your Hello World example, but the second you want to do something just
a little bit custom, like maybe I just want to do this one intermediate step before I
submit my completion, it makes it really hard to do that.
Almost invariably, you end up reaching for the base SDK or something that just gives
you a little bit more control over how the agent will execute things.
That's kind of been my experience.
It's been the experience that everyone I've spoken to that's decided to really go heavy
in on building this stuff.
You end up just going, man, I'm fighting this framework now and I can't figure out how to
customize it.
I'm just going to go for something a bit more custom.
What kinds of abstractions or architecture have you adopted?
I think one of the questions that just came up was, I think Lamont Index is now trying
to do this event-driven architecture and LandGraph is state-driven workflow.
What has felt right for the kind of products that you've been building?
You have the for loop and completion call.
Yeah, I actually think the abstraction for us that we also ended up doing really early
was the state machine model.
The idea is you have one main execution loop, the model decides what to do and that drops
you down into another sub module.
For example, let's talk about how we do analysis of something like a PDF.
If you're doing analysis of a PDF and you bring that data in, our model will then say,
okay, this is a PDF and we need to summarize it.
That then is a function call that then drops into a sub module or a sub agent that has
its own mini execution loop.
Then that then has all of the functions that it requires in order to analyze and assess
a PDF.
What you can do is you can yield these events to the upper loop that then yields it to the
client.
Basically you can go deep and bubble things and that's how you can get things like status
updates or citations or intermediate responses and stuff like that.
We just bubble everything through the execution loops.
The right way to think about it is a state machine with various states and each of those
states themselves is a mini state machine.
That seems to work extremely and it's easy to reason about as well.
This makes sense.
There's a lot of really great questions coming up.
I'll do one more question from the uploads and then we'll also do some live questions
as well.
If you see the React, you can basically use the hand raise gesture and then we can go
from there.
As people are figuring that out, let's ask some more questions.
This is a very simple one.
What did BD stand for in OpenBB and what is the USP of OpenBB?
Everyone thinks it stands for Bloomberg but it doesn't stand for Bloomberg.
It actually stands for BlackBerry.
The origin of the company is really, really interesting.
Didier, the founder, he essentially wrote a financial data terminal that ran in your
CLI, like in your terminal, that aggregated a whole bunch of financial data and this happened
during the whole GameStonk, GME event that happened.
Didier threw it on the Wall Street Bets subreddit and it blew up and got a crazy number of stars
and that's kind of the origin behind that.
Then when they created the company, as far as the rumor goes, him and his co-founder
James, they took a crazy wild bet on BlackBerry that didn't pan out and that became an inside
joke for them and so they decided to call it OpenBB.
Beautiful.
That's pretty funny.
I didn't actually know the Wall Street Bets history.
Are there any readings you would recommend on this state machine approach?
There's a follow-up question that I don't fully understand what this means, but by state
machines, do you mean more or mealy machines?
I don't know if you're familiar with those terms, but there's generally readings on the
state machine kind of model.
Yeah, so I'm not familiar with those terms.
I guess I'll just explain what I mean because it's the way I interpret it, but basically
the idea is it's kind of like a gentegrag where you have the agent generate the search
terms, let's say, for data, but rather than doing that just to fetch data, you essentially
have all of these sub-agents that have their own execution flows that you can drop into
via function call.
If you have your main execution loop, which is where the agent is essentially sitting,
you can imagine the agent sitting and it's got maybe some context of what data is available
and it has a whole bunch of tools that it can choose from.
And it essentially says, okay, I want to use this piece of data with that tool.
And then that becomes the state that you then enter and then analyze the information that
way.
And then you just basically hop between these.
So you go and execute something and then bounce back up to the main kind of, okay, what's
my next decision that I have to make?
In terms of reading material, I don't think I would read too deeply into it.
You could probably Google some stuff.
Just go bold.
Go bold.
Figure out.
I'm going to connect two agents together, one agent that comes up with the plan and
another agent that executes the plan.
And just bind the two of them via function call.
And pretty much there you go.
You've got two states that you're playing with.
Deep has a question.
Any kinds of challenges that you would like other sort of like support on or kind of problems
that are very open for you?
It's getting better now.
And I think Google and Gemini are doing the right thing.
And I've seen OpenAI start doing this too, which is a lot of the stuff that everyone
wants to do, which is a bit tricky to handle.
So for example, code execution.
Doing code execution yourself, we've done it.
We had internal tests of it.
Is quite a tricky thing to do because you have to spin up a remote dreadful.
You need to be able to submit instructions.
You need to manage state, that kind of thing.
What Gemini does, which is really like, I'm glad they did it and I'm glad other people
are following them is that just becomes something that you can toggle on and then their agent
will handle all of that.
It's abstracted away from you because handling that is not really the problem you want to
solve, but it's a big pain.
So to have all of that kind of stuff happen for you is really nice.
Like Google also integrating Google search into their stuff, which is a common use case.
That's really nice as well.
What do you think?
What else is...
You see the problem is I have the curse of knowledge, which means I've gotten so used
to the stochasticity of these models and kind of constraining down...
Because fundamentally, what are you when you're programming with other lens, right?
You're prompting these things.
You're shaping probability distributions in order to have the model as reliably as possible
take the actions and pathways that you want.
So you're painting these probability distributions using words and using tools and stuff like
that.
So that's fundamental.
And I'm so used to that now that it's kind of hard to think of it in any other way.
Let me ask a question real quick.
Have you used things like E2B?
I know like, I think in this case, if you do Gemini, you're kind of locked in a little
bit more, but I've not really tried much of it myself, but I'm curious if you use something
like E2B where they do their own code sandboxes and they...
So we looked at it.
We looked at it.
We looked at it in the Doc2 compliant, which is an issue.
So we rolled our own.
So basically what...
This is just a fun aside.
So basically with...
Over like a weekend, I ended up writing a mini interpreter in Python that would take
in code submitted as a string by the LLM, do abstract syntax tree parsing, evaluate
that code, capture the outputs of that and then return that.
So essentially we emulated a Red Bull that would run on AWS Lambda with state and it
was kind of like a fun hackathon project.
And that worked.
It worked surprisingly well and it was super cool.
So that's how we did it so we can make sure it was socked to compliance for people who
were potentially using it.
We just then ended up changing directions because people were really showed interest
So we never really released that to the public.
Maybe it's going to come back.
We don't know.
But yeah, that's...
It's not that hard to roll it yourself.
You can probably via code it if you want.
And that's something that's quite fun to do.
Python's amazing.
Interpreted languages are fun because you can do this kind of thing, right?
You don't have to compile them first.
Okay.
It's not sock2 compliant, but I'll just execute the string.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it's fine because if you run it on a Lambda and it's isolated and sandboxed and you have
an execution time limit, it can't do anything.
So you're fine in that regard.
It sounds like there's not many live questions here.
So I'll sort of ease the question I asked everyone at the end, which is, is there a
question you feel like folks should be asking?
Whether it's about multiple tool use, whether it's about building out these platforms,
I think.
I think what people should be asking, and I've seen a little bit of talk about it, but
only now.
When will locally running language models be integrated into browsers?
And when will a web standard be published that allows web apps and websites to interact
with those language models running in your browser in a native way?
I think longer term, this is what we're going to see.
The browser is by far the most important application on a computer.
And it just seems like such a natural place to want to slot in an on edge LLM is something
Google played around with having an LLM running in Chrome.
But I think that that interface to allow a web app to use that to maybe provide some
kind of LLM powered experience that's running locally on your machine that interacts with
that, maybe like a type check or maybe something that can allow you to hide content you don't
want to see or do translation or whatnot.
I think that is going to be, I would make a bet that that is going to become a web standard
at some point.
And as we get better at distilling these models, as we get better at running them more efficiently,
I really think that we're going to start seeing these things embedded directly into browsers,
which is where the users are.
The web is the operating system of the world right now.
And I think a lot of people should be asking, how can we make these LLMs that run on the
edge, how can we make them more efficient?
How can we make them more accessible to normal people?
How can we distribute them easily?
And the answer to that is, well, you're going to have to use the web browser, because my
grandmother is not going to install Ollama, right?
But she sure as hell knows how to browse the internet with Chrome.
And so I think that is going to become the natural target for where LLMs will eventually
be directly integrated into.
I think I'm going to ask the question here.
Do you think it'll be local first on desktop or mobile first?
Mobile.
Only certainly mobile.
Yeah, I feel like I saw Jordan Singer who recently has been doing a lot of LLM local
on mobile devices that have been running pretty smoothly.
But we'll see.
Maybe it'll just be mostly a hardware limitation.
Yeah, that's the problem right now.
But I think because more people have phones, it'll be the natural target, particularly
in the developing world.
I think that's a...
I don't know how you monetize this stuff.
I think that's the big problem that all the big tech giants are still trying to figure
out is like, how do we monetize this in a way that is sustainable and that warrants
us investing energy and time into this?
But I suspect they'll figure it out somehow.
Let me leave off with this question from deep, which is how do you make your agents sort
of self-improving, right?
When they have errors that would make mistakes, what is the flywheel that you've spun up to
allow these models to sort of learn from these mistakes?
Easiest one, the easiest one and the most obvious one, right?
If you run into some kind of error, if the agent isn't able to do something correctly,
have really good error messages and just return those and then let the model try again.
You see this everywhere with any kind of agent.
That is typically the thing that you can do.
The other thing is keep really good logs of all the ways in which things go wrong.
Typically you'll see there's a couple of key patterns that emerge where a model is always
making a stupid mistake.
We noticed, for example, one of our agents always for a particular data source, it always
generated input arguments, even if you asked it not to.
We noticed this pattern in our hero logs.
We aggregate these and we look at like trends of errors and we notice, oh, we didn't allow
to optionally specify certain input arguments.
And that's just like a common failure mode that we saw everywhere.
And the second you see that, you realize, oh, okay, I'm asking the LLM to do something
that's impossible for it to do.
And then you fix the system.
Don't try and prompt it differently if you can help it.
Just try and change the problem that you present in a way that makes it less possible to get
wrong, preferably with like some kind of hard coding solution that you can do.
We found that more effective than trying to build some kind of self-improving system,
where the self-improve is in this case.
This makes sense.
It's almost like we want to primarily just improve error messages and then you're doing
a lot of this data aggregation of the error messages or the failure modes.
What does that process look like?
Is it the case that we just have like messages on Slack?
Is there some DAF what you're looking at?
Every other week we get together for 40 minutes, we scroll through like LogFire, we kind of
just hypothesize what are the next big issues that are coming up.
Yeah, our process is really primitive, but it's not stupid if it works.
We look at the logs.
We have a couple thousand questions a day.
We look at the errors that come up through those.
Sometimes we pipe those to a Slack channel so that we get notified of them.
But we just keep our eyes open when we pay attention to how people are using our product
and where things are going wrong, where things are going right.
Based on that, it's often easier to just by looking.
It's not at this massifier.
It's just by looking where things go wrong, you very quickly identify common failure modes.
I think rather than trying to build some kind of specialized tooling to do this, getting
something that just dumps a message in Slack or just having people every morning when you
wake up, hey, what happened last night or the day before in terms of what went wrong?
Just go look.
And often you notice things that you can immediately fix.
And somehow I think we just don't flex that muscle enough really.
It's really that simple in many ways.
Yeah, I saw Mohammed asking, do you use an LLM to summarize the logs?
It's almost like it's better to just look.
Yeah, we just look.
It's astounding how just looking at logs, and obviously this assumes you have decent
logs to begin with, but we don't do any crazy smart stuff.
We're a small team.
We want to move fast and we want our systems to be reliable.
No, we just go look.
That makes sense.
I think every time I'm working with another client, they're like, oh, we just want more
reasonably.
We just have more reason.
It's like if you're delegating all the reasoning, what's your job?
If you end up reasoning, then you can use the simple processes.
Too many people are now too lazy to stare at things.
One of our neighboring countries is Namibia.
And this story will make sense in a second.
And it's a really rough place.
It's absolutely massive.
There's only too many people there.
It's one of the remotest countries in the world with some of the harshest terrain.
Toyota, who builds a lot of vehicles and stuff, they send their execs down with cars to Namibia
to just watch what breaks.
That is surprisingly effective.
You don't need workflows.
You don't need crazy tooling.
Sometimes just putting your boots on the ground and looking at what's going wrong, that's
the highest information signal you can get.
Totally.
It's just, you know, walk the assembly line.
I think it's something people are not doing enough.
The assembly line is made of robots.
We have the robots looking at the robots, looking at the robots.
And then with a big break, you have these big questions.
Exactly.
Let's do one question before we go.
Kasim says, in your workflows, how do you think about or manage expectations around
latency or just sort of...
Brilliant question.
Okay.
So, fantastic question.
This is where the status updates come in handy.
Hold on.
I'll go back to here.
So, okay, it's hidden a little bit, but you see the step-by-step reasoning?
If you expand this, it's got a whole bunch of different steps that the model took in
order to produce this graph.
It went and queried the right widget.
It fetched the data.
It then decided to produce some intermediate queries and then produce the chart.
One of the things you don't want to have a user do is sit there wondering what's happening.
It's why OpenAI will show you the thinking of a model, if it's going to be doing some
kind of reasoning or whether it's searching the web.
You need to have some kind of user feedback because users want to look at stuff.
And so, this is why they started streaming back tokens.
One of the benefits of an autoregressive model is when you've got a token, you've got
a token.
And the other thing is, well, we make it really easy to understand exactly what the model
is doing.
Hey, I'm busy querying this widget with these input arguments and here's why.
Now I'm busy writing this SQL query in order to analyze the structured data.
This didn't work.
I'm going to try this now.
Okay, I've got the answer now.
So it's kind of like just providing that constant user feedback.
That's the one thing that's really important.
And the other is often you'll find when you're querying multiple pieces of data, if they
don't need to interact with each other, it's an embarrassingly parallel problem.
You just split off the path and you do everything in parallel and you combine things together.
So if you're summarizing 10 PDFs, there's no reason to have to do that sequentially.
You just say, hey, I'm going to summarize the 10 PDFs.
You split them up, you summarize them and you combine the answer at the end.
And so that's the way you kind of manage latency.
And ever since we've been doing that, users don't seem to complain.
You can only read to cost anyway.
Yeah, I feel like, you know, cloud code has recently made a lot of really nice changes
to just make the layer feel very good.
There's always something moving in the paint.
Now tickle the brain.
Yeah, birth sample creatures.
Perfect.
All right.
I think it was great.
I mean, I feel like I have a better understanding of some like, it's funny because a lot of
the things I think about in terms of improving systems are about like retrieving few examples
and having better prompts for messaging.
But yeah, I feel like I've actually gotten that a good error message is sometimes the
most important thing.
It's good enough.
It really is.
Maybe this is just a function of the model being good enough to really be able to parse
these, but it seems like just investing in better error messages is something that is
worth, it is effectively an investment in the execution harness of the system that you're
building.
Yeah.
Yes.
I mean, look, what are these things trained on?
They're trained on tons of human data, right?
It kind of makes sense that if your error message will not be informative to a human,
it's not going to give you a probability distribution that will lead to a good answer or a good
next step by an LLM.
So what's good for the human is typically good for the LLM as well.
And sometimes I think anthropomorphizing LLMs more is a good thing, not a bad thing for
exactly that reason.
That's a good takeaway.
Well, I think we're out of time.
Thank you so much.
Is there any other parting words before we go?
We will send the notes to everybody via email, but yeah, if we can share the slides as well,
just let us know.
We can make sure to do that.
Yeah.
Yeah, 100%.
Feel free to share the slides.
I'll make it available to you guys.
Yeah.
Give us a try.
Send us an email.
Bring your own agents to OpenBB.
That's a lot of fun.
And yeah, thank you so much for having me.
It was really great.
And at the moment, no, but maybe see.
So we'll see.
We'll keep everyone updated.
All right.
Thank you, Michael.
Perfect.
All right.
Cheers, everyone.
Thank you.
Take care.

