Generally, I think many people have realized that multi-agent systems have been really
powerful for a lot of these read-only research workflows.
And today I'm really excited to bring in Walden, the co-founder and CPO of Cognition, to talk
about why we don't do that for multi-agents in the coding context.
Today he'll talk a little bit about how the frameworks we're thinking about are pretty
premature and his two core design principles around traces and avoiding multiple components.
And then we'll talk a little bit more about how single agents scale out and how they can
even use read-only subagents to get a little bit more context.
As always, any questions you have will be posted in the Slido.
You can go there and upload them.
And with that, Walden, take it away.
Yeah, thank you, Jason, for having me.
And I'm really excited to be talking with everyone here about kind of like this thing
that we've been thinking about a lot, whether we want it or not when building Devon, which
is just like, how should we think about what kinds of patterns in agent building are robust
and what kinds of patterns are robust?
So a lot of this is going to be covering the ideas I go over in a blog post we made a few
weeks ago.
It was called Don't Build Multi-Agents.
I think that if there weren't the goal of like, you know, making the title something
that people would be excited to click on, I think maybe like a more appropriate or just
like general, like high level title would be something around the idea of context engineering.
And the reason I say this is because a lot of the reason why we suggest to not build
multi-agents is ultimately coming down to how you think about context and the difficulties
of moving context around multi-agents.
I think another blog post, literally the day after, came out from Anthropic about how they
build multi-agents.
And this is just something I really want to touch on because the funny thing is if you
go through and read the blog post we made out, put out and read the blog post that Anthropic
put out, a lot of the ideas in the blog post are actually very similar.
We both talk about the importance of moving context, where you have to be very careful
in constructing your systems and prompts in order to get things right, even though
the final titles seem like they're contradictory.
So in this case, you know, I want to, I'm going to spend most of the context of this
conversation talking about the theory of context engineering and less about this ultimate conclusion
of like whether you should build multi-agents or not, because it does start to depend on
the context of what you're doing.
But at least in the coding context and what we do building dev and cognition, a lot of
the multi-agent systems we've played with can be quite fragile, we've ultimately moved
away from, but in other domains it might be interesting.
Just to give some quick filler on what context engineering is and why you should be thinking
I think there's kind of this like mimetic terminology of like prompt engineering going
around, right around like when ChatGFD came out.
And on one hand, it was fun because it was this idea that, hey, like, you know, you could
talk about like, you know, you tell your agent or you tell your, there weren't agents at
the time, you tell your chatbot, hey, pretend you're like a 99 percentile, you know, writer
or 99 percentile coder.
And there are all these tricks, like saying you would tip the agent and how that would
like, you know, improve its probability of doing things well.
And I think we've moved away from that world.
Largely models today are generally very good and very smart.
And you know, the labs have already done all the work of like making sure you don't have
to type out all of this unnecessary stuff about pretending and role playing, like how
smart or intelligent you are.
And now the only thing that is really standing between how intelligent these systems are
and how much useful work they can do for you is how much context do they have?
How much do they know about what you're trying to get them to do?
How much do they remember about what they have done for you already, et cetera, et cetera?
And this is really the number one priority if you're building agents is thinking about
how do you get the context of what it has to do or what it has done to the agent at
every point in time as it's making decisions?
So I like to make this analogy about the early web and the arrival of React.
React is just like so widespread today and in large part because of LLMs.
But React is not how the web was first developed.
And in some ways, it's almost like unintuitive when you're first learning how to use React.
But the big difference that React made was that it kind of builds into itself all of
the core principles and ideas of web development that are needed to make a website feel good,
in particular, the ability of a website to be very dynamic and reactive, the ability
to make sure a state is maintained and consistent through these hooks and patterns.
And that was like you could do that with HTML and JavaScript and CSS.
React didn't make website building, it didn't unlock things that weren't possible before.
It just codified it so that it was really easy to continue to make sites that follow
these great patterns.
And so there are a lot of people who actually try to make LLM frameworks today.
And I almost feel like it's too early for that, specifically because we are in this
age of basically the equivalent of HTML, JavaScript and CSS for building agents and building
LLM systems.
We're still learning a lot of the important principles and ideas are going to be.
And eventually, we'll probably get to the point where we have great frameworks where
you can kind of skip all this hard learning and just get straight to building systems
that are perfectly optimized and use all the right patterns.
So this is, I think, why it's important to be thinking about and putting words to the
concepts and ideas that people who are building agents just end up finding ourselves relearning
over and over again.
And yeah, the context engineering and context passing is kind of one of these key things
that I'll be talking about today.
I'm just going to.
I want to walk through and motivate context engineering and these ideas about context
passing with just a kind of exercise of like, imagine we're building an agent and we want
this agent to kind of like be powerful and do some multi-agent stuff.
So I kind of put a diagram here of how you might build your first attempt at a multi-agent
system.
So let's say you have a task.
Maybe you'll give it to one agent or one LLM to take this task and split it into multiple
parts.
So it will take your one task and it will decide, OK, it seems like there's these two
subtasks.
It will give these two subtasks then to other agents.
So that way, these two subagents can do their work in parallel.
And let's say these two subagents, their final results are then taken, given back to one
final agent to combine the results.
And this pipeline is going to be the agent that we're looking at.
So let's run through example.
Imagine we give the task of building a simple clone of Flappy Bird.
Well, you might have one subtask be, OK, let's build the background with the green pipes
and hitboxes.
And one agent will go do that.
Another agent, you'll kind of make sure you have the bird asset and that can move up and
down.
Well, what will happen is if you're not careful, you might end up getting one agent
interpreting a background between pipes and hitboxes to be something close to Mario,
because Mario has green pipes that has a moving background.
And then you just told it to build a bird that can move up and down.
There wasn't really much context on what this bird should look like or what else it is.
And you might actually get a bird from a completely different game.
And then now you're giving your final agent two completely separate assets that aren't
really coherent with each other and don't actually have the mechanics that you want
either.
So this is not great.
And it might feel a bit extreme.
And I'm purposely kind of exaggerating how bad it can get here because it is a simple
example.
In reality, this will kind of work for Flappy Bird, if I had to guess.
But the context you should remember is that Flappy Bird is just a very simple example
of a task.
If you take this system and are running it in production on even thousands, certainly
this becomes an issue when you're getting to tens of thousands of tasks, and these tasks
are relatively complicated, you're going to find lots of places where miscommunications
like this are just going to get introduced in your system, especially when the user is
talking with the system back and forth many times, when these subagents are getting more
or more nuanced tasks and you forget to pass some details through, those are all the kind
of areas where the system can break down.
So this Flappy Bird miscommunication here is just kind of illustrative, but it is something
that really happens when you take any of these systems and try to run them at scale.
So the way I propose you have to try to get around this is, in our case, these subagents,
they were only understanding what they were told by the main agent, and you're playing
this game of telephone, where you're telling the main agent, hey, can you just take what
you were told and then break down a version of that to be told to the subagents?
What you really want is to minimize this game of telephone.
So how can we let the subagents directly see what the main agent saw so that they have
the exact same, if not better, context than the main agent?
More so than that, one other caveat as you're building real systems is the context isn't
just the user message that came in and the task that it's been given, but it is also
the context of everything that you have done as the agent.
If you, as the main agent, have looked at code files, if you, as the main agent, asked
questions and got answers to those questions, that context, those full agent traces should
also be given as context.
So not just user message, but also the full traces, and all of this context is ideally
things that you should be passing around to the agents, to the LLM calls in your system.
So here's a version of what this might look like.
In this case, I'm using these kind of colored squares to represent context.
So basically, the original green agent, the original agent we had for breaking down the
task, it can see its own context about the conversation it's had with the user and anything
it's done to decide how to break down the code.
Subagent 1 and Subagent 2, they actually see the same exact green context, so the same
exact set of messages and actions that the original agent took when they are working.
And they, of course, also see the context of their own work.
So Subagent 1 will kind of see the context of all of Subagent 1's work.
Subagent 2 will see all the context of Subagent 2's work.
And then, importantly, the final agent, and this can also be sometimes tricky, is something
that is capable of seeing everything that happened with the original agent and conversation,
everything that Subagent 1 and Subagent 2 did, and then it also has the context of what
it is doing to combine all of their work together.
So the passing of the green context in particular here is what we're going to do to kind of
avoid that problem of Subagent 1 and Subagent 2 not understanding the original task.
So let's take this for a spin and see how this does in the Flappy Bird task.
So you give the Flappy Bird task, you still have the things to do on the left and right.
It's better, it's better for sure.
The thing is, Subagent 1 and Subagent 2 aren't communicating with each other.
They don't have each other's context.
So what you might get is you might get a nice set of green hit pipes and hit boxes, and you
might get a bird that can move up or down.
But there's lots of different ways in which, oops, there's lots of different ways in which
the thing that Subagent 1 does and the thing that Subagent 2 does, there might be different
styles for each other.
That's what I'm choosing to illustrate here is the bird is a different artistic style
from the pipes.
At the code level, they might be using different APIs from each other.
They might re-implement some same code.
They might be incompatible in other ways.
So having these two subagents that can't talk to each other, it's like having a team of
engineers where you can't let them message each other.
They're going to end up stepping on each other's toes if you're not careful.
And so again, you might result in a conflict or you might just end up with a poor result.
So if we really reflect on what's happening here, basically, it is the true that Subagent
1 and Subagent 2 understood what the original task was.
They understood the mission.
The thing is, Subagent 1 and Subagent 2, they started doing things and those doing things
are basically committal.
And when Subagent 1 is committing to certain types of work and certain types of decisions,
Subagent 2 is also committing to other decisions.
These commitments and decisions conflict with each other.
So with any agentic system, lots of actions can basically carry these implicit decisions
being made.
It might feel like, oh, I'm just following orders, but there's a lot of implicit decisions
from the styling to the way you choose to build your variables.
And anytime these decisions are made, you almost always have to actually make sure this
decision is shared with everyone else, or else you might just get these conflicting
decisions and you can get really bad results from that.
So if we think about the principles we've built up so far, the first one of let's just
make sure we always share context and share the full agent traces of context.
And principle two now of, hey, let's make sure that decisions are something tracked
very carefully and make sure we don't step on each other's toes.
What is a system we can build that is relatively reliable?
So the most simple answer is just do like a linear simple agent where, you know, you
can still have your agent that breaks down the task, but let's not run Subagent 1 and
Subagent 2 in parallel.
Let's just give the task to Subagent 1.
It'll do the first part of the task.
It'll have the context of everything that happened before.
You go to Subagent 2.
It does its part of the task.
It has the context of everything that happened before.
And then finally, you have the final agent that's combining their results.
And that final agent has the context of everything that has happened before.
So the nice benefit of this thing is there are not multiple decision-makers
at any given point in time.
Subagent 2 is already living with the decisions of Subagent 1, and it has the
context of what Subagent 1 does.
So it knows what Subagent 1 has decided on.
It can work off of those changes without stepping on Subagent 1's toes.
And then the final agent again sees everything that happened.
And so it can combine the results in a nice way.
Now this is possibly the very first thing you would build as an agent builder.
It's just like a simple while loop of a system that just does things and maybe
have some task breakdown at the beginning.
And yeah, it works.
It really quickly runs into limits though.
And this is kind of where you are really trying to add value as a context
engineer is what are the limits of these systems?
And so the simple system we just looked at, LLMs have context windows.
And even before you hit their context windows, they kind of start making bad
decisions the more context you feed into them.
So you probably will have some implicit limit you want on how many tokens you
want to have and give to your model before you want to start condensing
what information it has.
And so with a simple agent, if you're just collecting everything that this
agent has been doing and especially for these longer tasks, you'll quickly run
to context overflow issues, especially as you go down the line towards the end
of your task.
And so that's not very good.
We said context passing is important.
How do you get around this?
There's a lot of different ways to do this.
This is probably where you kind of have to be creative as an agent builder.
The thing I will be talking about today is at least an idea we explored and was
what we did very early on at Cognition was think about, okay, if we're passing
context through, can we be intelligent about what context we choose to pass
from one agent to the next?
And so we built this system that we basically think about as the context
compressor.
And every single time we have some context from a previous part of the system,
we'd pass it through this context compressor, and then we'd have a shorter
version that we can give to the next agent.
And the idea is because these systems are getting, or these contexts are getting
shorter as we're passing it on, you don't run into this context overflow issue
as easily.
Now, this system also has its limits because eventually even these short
pieces of context will overflow and you'll have the same problem again, but
you can get a lot further.
I will say this context compression LLM, it is like this one simple thing you
add to the system, but it ends up adding a lot of complexity and is very hard to
get right.
You have to think very hard about what are the things specific to your domain,
in our case coding, that is actually important to carry from each step to the
next.
Because if you don't think really hard about this, you're going to run to the
same problem we had at the very beginning, which is important details,
important decisions, kind of just getting lost as the agent works.
In our case, actually one thing we did is we actually trained a model to get
really good at taking pieces from earlier pieces of the conversation and moving
that into the next part of the system.
We have other advanced parts of this thing today.
I would say that you have to think very carefully about are you willing to put
in the work to squeeze out this extra juice from your system.
In our case, it makes sense because our entire goal is to make sure that we can
take on harder and harder engineering tasks.
And for us, the investment into this system makes sense.
But we are also very careful of not having too many things like this, because
again, it adds complexity.
It is something you have to be very careful of and it takes real engineering
effort to get right.
A lot of trial and error and you have to build out a lot of evals and a really
good system to test these kinds of things.
We talked at a high level about context engineering.
I want to just give some really quick real world examples about agents people
have built and how they think about context engineering.
So one is this idea of a read-only sub agent.
Open code, this is literally a tweet from yesterday, so it was
really relevant for this talk.
But also, Claude code does this.
The idea here is that, okay, if conflicting decisions is a lot of the
root cause of where issues come from, what if you don't have your
agents make any decisions?
All they do is just try to read and find stuff for you.
And then they'll just aggregate that into one final thing.
So Claude code does this.
I think in Claude's multi-agent blog post, they talk about a system that can
research a lot of websites at one time.
The task tool is the sub agent tool.
And if you look at the tasks that the sub agent is doing for open code, one is
listing the project files, one is just looking at some packages, one is just
looking for some imports, these are all reading tasks.
Reading tasks are really not as bad, but also in particular, the designers of
these systems, these agent builders are very careful to constrain their sub
agents to only doing read-only tasks.
I think if you read the Claude Sysprompt, if you read open code Sysprompt,
you'll probably find stuff that's like, you should only use sub agents for
things that involve reading code.
Because as soon as you have it writing code, oh man, now you have stuff
happening in the background and it's hidden and you don't know what's happening.
You also see that the author here is talking about saving context window.
And so in this case, read-only sub agents, the idea of having a system that
isn't going to be making decisions that only has one final result to share with
you, maybe that final result is actually the only thing that's relevant from what
the agent has done.
Again, there are cases where this breaks down, but it is at least a heuristic that
is kind of well thought through and they understand the trade off they're making,
which is you're a saving context window for the trade off of, you know, maybe
taking on like, you know, 1% more risk in the sub agent, giving you some
incorrect information for what it's worth.
We've also seen sub agents, even read-only sub agents go wrong before.
One simple example is you have two read-only sub agents, you tell them to
look for different things.
They come back to you with answers, but these answers actually conflict with each
other on, you know, on how they claim the underlying system works.
I mean, what do you do now?
Because now you don't have the context of either of these sub agents.
You don't have one thing that's deciding who is right and who's wrong.
And you can run into some of these problems again.
So you got to be careful.
Another one I'll quickly go through.
This is a funny thing.
And so it exists in many systems today, including cursor and windsurf.
And it's this idea of an edit apply model, the rough history of this.
And by the way, edit apply models, I think is just like a really interesting
kind of like look into how you can really squeeze out juice of a system when you
own the underlying inference for your LLMs.
But that core idea of edit apply model is that at one point models were really
bad at outputting diffs.
So they're really bad at editing code.
But they're really good at spitting out basically chunks of markdown explained
to a human what code should be changed.
So we would have this thing where you take a really smart coding model.
It would output the instructions that is usually for a human to read about, oh,
like, you know, change these parts of the code or like leave some comments about
like, oh, delete this code here.
And you take your edit apply model and this LLMs entire job is to take the
human readable instructions from this agent, take the original code, and then
just spit out the new final version of the code.
This edit apply model is built to be very fast system.
So you can, you can go from the original code to the final code very quickly, but
it's just not a very smart agent.
So the smart coding agent has to give very, very clear instructions to the
edit apply model about what to change.
And here is exactly where you can start having some breakdown in your, your
system's accuracy because you're doing this context passing the apply model here.
The thing it lacks isn't necessarily context.
It lacks the intelligence of the smart coding model.
So the instruction passing here is basically the entirety, you know, is like
the main bottleneck in the system of how accurate will the final edit be.
And I think, you know, when you see complaints online about, Hey, sometimes
in these code editors, the edit will be like wrong and oral mess something up.
It is often because of this, that the smart coding agent left out some
important detail or wasn't specific enough about something and banned the
edit apply model, you know, did something wrong.
Um, this is kind of an example of like fragility in one of these systems.
Um, and yeah, so quickly just get back to like the original point in
question from the beginning.
So multi-agents as they've generally been explored, I think in just like
the general popular tech culture is this idea of just like almost having like
an entire company where every single role in person is replaced by an agent and
having them collaborate with each other.
That world is, I think a world that like, we're not really ready for yet.
Um, I think if your multi-agents are very constrained, like maybe for these
read only use cases, they're passable.
You just have to be careful.
You can't avoid the problem of doing context engineering and
dropping their blog posts.
I think talks a great length about how they prompt their sub agents or prompt
their agent to only use a sub agent in very specific ways, or else you can get
things that go very wrong.
Um, and I also just generally think that if you're abiding by like kind of
principles of good context engineering, your system as a whole, even if it has
like sub parts and tasks, it kind of should feel to the user, like a single
agent, because the user has to feel like they're talking with one continuous
decision maker, one continuous, like consciousness almost, um, even if there's
like a lot of underlying things happening under the hood.
So when we build Devon, we always try to build it such that it feels like one
entity that you're talking to.
Um, and then the other thing I think is that we'll eventually get to the point
where, you know, you have multiple LM agents and they're working with each
other on a team, like coworkers, but actually requires being very intelligent
to be good at collaborating with other people.
Like when, when, when I'm working with another engineer on my team, if I am
mentally modeling at the same time, what they know, what they don't understand
and what I have to tell them.
So unless the, these LLMs basically get really good themselves and get really
intelligent themselves, that is going to be the bottleneck to getting at these
multi-agent systems work.
But once you get good single agent systems, once you get a single agent that
is good with interacting with a user and make that smarter and more collaborative,
then we'll probably unlock this, the agent to agent multi-agent world, um,
naturally, but the single agent world is kind of like really where I think this,
this space should be focusing, getting, getting to progress.
And then, you know, we'll, we'll, we'll get those multi-agents that were promised.
So, yep, that's, uh, I think that's my time and that's the general, just my talk.
Again, thanks for having me.
And I'm, I'm very happy to kind of like go into questions about this or just,
you know, generally questions about cognition.
We, uh, I think there's a bunch of really interesting questions here.
So let's just, uh, jump in real quick.
Um, yeah, I mean, one of the things you talked about was just sort of how much
more intelligent you have to be to collaborate as software developers.
Um, do you have a sense of like, what are these specific skills that
these agents are lacking?
Is it like the ability to interrupt?
Is it making pull requests and reviewing PRs?
Um, I'm curious, like, where do you think this, uh, this lack of intelligence
and collaboration is coming from right now?
Yeah, there's a lot of things here.
And this is probably some of the things we were thinking about most as we are
going to the realm of like human and agent collaboration.
So one thing I'll say is that for most people, human in the loop means like
you're, there's a system and you can like press stop or you can press go at
any point in time, you can interrupt it.
Um, it's really nice.
It gives you a lot of control as a developer.
Um, what do you think about collaboration?
Where like you're working with an entity that can run for long periods of time.
You don't want to take the human out of the loop.
The human has to be the ultimate decision maker and will
approve anything that is done.
But the agent almost has to be more intelligent about how it interacts with you.
So one thing that systems are not great at today, and one thing that we work on
a lot is this problem of escalation, right?
One kind of system recognize when it reaches its own limits of the
decisions it is allowed to make.
Um, okay.
Like, you know, you're working a task.
Turns out there's some really niche problem here that you didn't expect at
the start when you talked with a human.
Um, and it requires actually a pretty difficult architectural decision.
How do you know?
Like, Hey, you should either way, you should notify the human that like, Hey,
there's something weird that's happening here.
You know, that the changes are not going to look like what we originally expected,
but maybe it actually has to be the human's decision.
So escalating decisions, um, and, and being good at noticing when something is
out of your, out of your depths is something these agents aren't good at yet,
but it's going to be a very important part of getting this right.
Is it very, also very closely related to confidence, like how confident is
an agent in its own, in its own decisions?
Um, and so in Devon, one thing we do is when you collaborating with your agent,
or when you collaborate, when you're collaborating with Devon, Devon will give
you the, how confident it is in its plan.
And that way you as a human can say like, Oh, okay.
Devon is like 99% confident that this is going to work.
You can roughly be hands off.
You can just come back to your PR later.
If Devon's only like 60% confident, like, okay, let me, let me see
like what it wrote down for you.
And then there's also this problem that comes with that of not being verbose.
I think people hate how like, you know, I'll also just send you
like a wall of texts and markdown.
Um, a smart engineer will like manage to hone in on the key problems and the key
things you have to think about with like minimal words.
Um, one sentence, two sentences of words.
And that's what we try to also do with Devon is like, can we just
minimize the amount of words we need to like get the human on
the same page as the agent?
And, and are these systems mostly prompted now or, you know, you mentioned,
you know, training your own models for things like context compression.
Um, yeah, like, has it been the case that these newer models are just intelligent
enough to do this or have you had to sort of like use Devon as a harness to
sort of collect this feedback data?
Yeah, I think that's absolutely the right question.
And it, it gets into territory why I can't fully talk about the exact
details of everything that we do, but I will say that like in many of these
cases, it isn't within like the capabilities of the main agent.
And so you do have to kind of like find either like, you know, prompt really,
really hard to do things like case shot, um, you know, at times fine tuning
to get the capabilities that you want.
Um, and sometimes there was like ideas, which like, you just have to put on the
boilerplate or put in the boilerplate and then you can just, you know,
on the, on the, uh, on the back burner until, you know, some system does come
along that's intelligent enough.
That makes sense.
Do you guys just have like a set of eval that are like failing today?
And every time a new model comes up, you just rerun it and then decide
whether it's worth pursuing.
We have lots of evalves here.
Yeah.
It is like one of the key things you also realize that eventually as you
scale an org, like you can't just like do everything through travel knowledge
and remembering like, you know, what was breaking, what isn't working.
You kind of need evalves.
So, so people will have a, like a concrete way to know like, Hey, is
something better than it was before?
Yeah.
I saw some videos a while ago about like, why I see companies like, Oh, we
are scoring a hundred percent on your evals.
And like, that's like the success metric.
It's like, no, no, no, you, you want eval that are failing.
So, you know, new models come out.
Uh, you're going in the right direction.
Um, I mean, given that, I guess now it's probably just the case that like this
context compression, like that is just something that is happening at every
single like agent pass, or is it now very much like some of the other systems?
I think when I see like AMP and cloud code, it just says, if I'm running out
of context, I will like compress my context.
Um,
yeah.
So AMP and cloud code, I think the, the, the model they follow is something like
when you reach some part of the limit, you know, yet you do some compression.
Um, and I think that that's very reasonable as well.
Um, in many cases, again, you have to be very careful about how you prompt
the system to pass and what information is to keep and what information you
shouldn't keep, I think that's mainly probably like the biggest area of
difference in any of these systems is just like how they were deciding what
agent they are, what context they're surfacing to the agent at any point in time.
Yeah.
You definitely have to sort of know what the goal of these systems are.
You know, I think in the coding context, it's very clear of like, okay,
know what files have been changed.
I mean, where are the tests?
How do you run the tests?
Um, but I think in a lot of other contexts, it's been hard for people
to sort of reason about these kinds of tools.
Um, I guess one question I also have here, it's like, where do you think all
this like multi-agent stuff and this context passing, where does that fit in
with like the bitter lesson, like in my mind, and I'm very biased here, I feel
like in the future, it will just be one agent, right?
Or do you think there's actually mechanical benefits that we can't
realize with multi-agents, you know?
Yeah.
Um, I kind of think I agree with you.
And it's related to what I was saying on this last slide, which is like a
well-engineered system and agent, even if it's very complex and has lots of
moving parts, should feel like a single agent.
I think a lot of movies, like, you know, the AGI that they build, like you
can talk to it like a person, um, even though there's probably a lot of
stuff going on in there, um, how it fits in with the bitter lesson.
I think that's like a very interesting question.
I think another benefit of the single agent systems is you can, I think,
generally be like smarter about how you scale them and it's like kind of like,
you know, it's a simpler system for you to work with and go through.
And this goes back to the idea of like, you know, you really are making a trade
off anytime you introduce complexity to eke out accuracy, um, and you better
make sure that complexity isn't like reducing your reliability of the system.
Yeah.
I think there's another question that people tend to ask me in particular.
Okay.
Like, should I do this technique or that technique?
It's always going to be more about the budget, right?
It's like, if this more complex feature gets you 1% improvement, it might
actually not be worth it based off the latency or the cost or anything like that.
Um, and I'm sure you just have a bunch of evals there to make
a lot of, make sense of it all.
Um, yeah.
And I guess in these contexts, I guess a single agent is also
probably easier to train, right?
Or has it been the case that like multi-agents, like, I don't know
if there's been any big difference in the way we have to train these things
or think about few shotting.
Yeah.
Um, I think some single agents are not only easier to train.
I mean, it's also just generally where most of like the research work goes.
I think because multi-agents as well, for all the reasons I mentioned, or is
it just kind of somewhat unreliable.
And when you're a researcher, you kind of want to make sure like the only
reason you're like evals and scores are low is because you got to keep training.
You got to add more data, not because you like, you know, your agents played
some game of telephone that that wasn't working correctly.
Although that's going to be something that, uh, again, all these ideas about
agents getting better communication and passing context is going to be something
that, you know, we'll, we'll have to become part of the training data and
some of these agents will get better at.
That makes sense.
Yeah.
One thing I also noticed, um, was when I've been using like coding tools, I
generally have like a very weak form of a plan.
It's just like, you read some documents, make a plan file, then try to do it.
Uh, recently I've been watching some like pretty intense, uh, like coders and
they'll spend like 30 minutes, 40 minutes building out this like massive plan MD
file, like what has been the work on like planning in general, right?
You can imagine maybe there's a world where I had a final API layer and I have
two agents that work on the back end and the front end and we, we just guarantee
that like, this is the standard API that exists there.
Um, do you think there are specific kinds of work that multi-agents could be useful
for, but maybe not in the generic case, but.
Yeah.
So planning is something that, um, we do.
And it, the context of planning a version came up for us is actually a form of
context management because, uh, again, it's, it's about avoiding this game of
telephone where you, you have like constantly recompress and the information
that you're sending to your agent.
It's about committing to what you're doing upfront and then letting the
agent kind of follow that structure.
And so, um, planning, it's also this nice read only space where you
can get to do your, your own thing.
So at the very start of any task, when you give it to Devon, Devon is going to
spend time reading a lot of code and generating a plan, um, often doing a
mix of lots of systems.
And maybe that is like play that probably the one place where we do think about
some of these like sub agents or multi-agents, if you will, although we
don't really think about it that way because again, Devon is built to kind of
feel like the single thing.
Um, I think planning is going to be a super powerful thing.
I think that going the full plan MD route is, is like one of the ways you can put
in more effort and get better results in the end, although I also think that these
things will become parts of the systems themselves.
And that's where we're trying to kind of go with Devon is like, Hey, you can, you
can be shown the plan, you can click this button to like view the full plan that
agent's working on, but the agent will work on this internally for its own sake.
Um, you know, whether or not like you, you tell it to you or not.
Yeah, that makes sense.
I've had, I've had plans now where it's like phases, like one to three, each
phase has like the files you're allowed to update the test, you have to run
before they pass and then like the poor PRs you have to make here.
Um, I mean, one, one question I see getting up voted is around the
frameworks and tools and patterns.
So you talked about how we're still pretty early.
We're like JavaScript, HTML, CSS.
Um, are there any patterns you feel bullish on?
Right.
I know some folks talk about like state machines and graphs, you know, I don't, I
don't know personally if that's sort of the angle I want to pursue, but like, do
you feel like there's an early J query that exists for building up these systems?
Yeah.
You know, we actually have our own framework that we build ourselves and
maintain ourselves internally here at cognition, um, lots of parts of it that
we throw out over time, lots of parts of that that we keep, I'd say my
favorite things about our thing.
One is a framework that is naturally cash aware.
Um, long, even before API is introduced caching, um, you actually could get
caching effects if you worked directly with the labs and were kind of careful
about how you send your prompts.
Um, and so that was a lot of like things we, we had to do and figure out early on
it here at cognition to get our agents to work is like, how can we get caching
even before caching cash pricing was a part of the API?
And so our system has been built with caching kind of like being a very core
condition.
So even as you scale out and do the, these subagents and things like that,
having a system that still manages to like, oftenly cash work from before, I
think is going to be important thing, just like practically for developer.
Um, I think another part of it is just how integrated is your, is your agent
building code with your eval system?
Yep.
Um, and so I think we should put out a blog post about this sometime in it
because we take this kind of interesting approach where, um, we kind of like
segment functionalities of our system into modules and these modules are tagged
in such a way that, um, not only are things that go through those modules,
things that are like, we can track and feed into eval systems.
When we change code inside of these modules, we can then also like back run
them against evals from before.
Um, and, and this is just super helpful for developers of being able to like
think about your evaling your code in conjunction with your prompts.
Um, and, and that way, like you, you can completely re-architect some parts of
these and still trust your, your evals from before.
Yeah, that makes sense.
In the, in the search space, I've definitely seen examples where like the search
system they're using to evaluate the code is actually not the one they're running
in production.
And then this drift over time, it comes like a bunch of massive tech debt.
I know some companies use their own proprietary, like prompting templating
tools and, uh, you know, because they were trying to be too smart with a prompt
optimization when caching came out, uh, they weren't able to benefit from that
because they were doing like dynamic truncation of all these aspects.
But yeah, I think being cash aware is something people have not been
thinking about too much.
Um, I mean, given that, doesn't it also feel like if I do spend up a sub agent,
I'm almost better off just copying the entire history because that at least is
cash where if I try to summarize it, uh, that that breaks, but maybe this is a,
this is a poor assumption.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, the context passing is like super important for not, not just for all the
intelligence reasons we talked about, but also for caching.
Yeah.
So like, you know, actually like don't lose that much, um, cost-wise if you just
like keep the sub agents context around the main thing, I think it's probably
like the token limit that is, is what you often run into.
That makes sense.
Um, I think a bunch of folks are here are really curious about this confidence
metric, like I'm pretty familiar with it.
It's just like every time you, every time I tagged Evan on a, on a
podcast, there's like the red, yellow, green circle.
Um, how is that like, can you talk a little bit more about how that has been
designed or how do you get feedback for something like that?
Yeah.
Um, we, we basically, we want it to be something that the user can actually trust.
So you might see that it actually rarely outputs like a very strong green.
Um, and we kind of like purposely bias it to like be very, um,
concerned about what it's missing.
And so there are lots of specific things.
We make sure the agent tries to take into consideration when giving
you a confidence score, including what code have you not seen.
Actually, this is probably like the biggest gap.
I talked about this earlier already in terms of like the idea of like escalating
to user, but if you think about how these systems are trained, um, before we
started doing RL on agents, um, they're trained as chat bots and the chat bots
metric is like, you know, next token production, can you predict the answer
that the user wants or what the correct answer is?
You don't get points for saying, I don't know.
Right.
Cause it's cause you, yeah.
You output the right answer.
You output the wrong answer.
When you get right, when you get it right, you get points.
Um, it makes me think a little bit about how, um, some math competitions, um,
what they'll actually do is they'll give you points for just like leaving no answer.
And the way it's set up is that you actually, if you have no idea what the
answer is and you have some like random expected value of like guessing the
right answer, your expected value is higher if you just say like no answer.
Um, and I think that's kind of like where we want to make our agents go is.
It is a lot more helpful for the agent to say, I don't know, or I'm only this,
this percent confident rather than just saying like, oh, okay, let's think, you
know, here, here's what my first guess would, would be for the answer.
Um, and, and the, we also integrate this with our planning so that if it's
also really unconfident, um, it'll just stop and it'll just make sure I can't
proceed until I actually get these answers from the user.
That makes sense.
That makes sense.
Um, I know we probably only have like 12 minutes.
I'm going to ask a very selfish question, which is I now find myself
mostly just like tagging coding agents on GitHub and reviewing PRs.
I'm curious, like, have you guys thought of a little bit more about what their
review process looks like and how it can be different in, in maybe a year or two
years from now when I think, you know, I would, I would be surprised at like 80%
of the code I write is a, yeah, I generated.
Yeah.
I think there's actually a lot of room for classical frameworks here.
Um, I am amazed all the time how much agents are able to just basically build
on top of systems that we've built for humans.
Like, I mean, there's kind of this joke that like, okay, like, you know,
agents are just about like, you know, you fork VS code, you fork play, right?
You fork the language servers and you just kind of just like take all these
classical tools that, that people have been built before and you, you know,
give them to your coding agent and it's able to be massively successful.
Um, what, but there are areas where the classical tools haven't
filled all the gaps you need.
I think one thing is basically in code review.
Um, and, um, if you use for cell, for cell has this really nice feature where,
um, you can get like preview links of a site you deploy.
And that is great for us because it means that, okay, I tagged Devin on Slack.
I go away, I do my thing.
And first of all, I always told Devin to send me a screenshot of the
visual changes it makes.
So I don't have to even leave Slack.
I will immediately see a screenshot of like, okay, is this even something
reasonable that I want to review?
And if it is that I just go to GitHub, I see the preview link that
Verso created, I just click that and I'll just like play around with the site directly.
It is like, can you really like minimize the amount of work you have to do to
know whether or not the changes are correct or not.
And I think that for cell preview pattern is something that should probably also
exist for backends for like more complicated systems as well.
Um, but the infrastructure to build those things out, is this something people
have heavily invested in yet?
I think maybe we will have to invest more into that.
That makes sense.
That makes sense.
Yeah.
In previous companies I've worked with, we would always just do like a, you
know, half a percent shatter traffic to this new endpoint to see if it works.
Maybe, maybe Devin will just be able to look at those logs and say, okay, these
are the error messages, let me fix those and continue there.
Um, I guess now that we only have like 10 minutes left, I'm curious, like, what
do you think is something folks aren't really asking when it comes to, uh,
designing these systems?
Yeah, that's a great question.
I think that if I had to guess, like how builders are thinking about building
their agents from the start, um, one thing that people often maybe ask too
much is about like tool use and, um, the set of tools you, you, you give the agent.
I, I, I personally like to just like give our agent the most universal tools possible
and, um, make sure there's very easy to use.
So the shell command, like the bash tool, for example, is so powerful.
It's like literally means like anything you can do on a computer, like your agent
can do now because it has this command.
Now there's some means that you can actually kind of get around the need for
things like MCP integrations for a lot of things like, like, like, like, like
a lot of things because it means that an MCP integration can be reduced to a shell
command and an API key, right?
Um, you can actually a lot of times I see people build CLI tools that are
actually sometimes more powerful than MCP.
That's exactly what I do.
Yeah.
The thing is CLI tool can actually do for you is it can like, um, every
time you interact with it, it can like kind of reprompt the agent if you
want to be creative in that way.
So, um, I found someone who like, he, he was, um, he was using Devon to work on
like this massive test suite, like thousands of tests and the, the process
he created actually was he created a CLI tool that when Devon runs it, it'll not,
it'll run the test.
It'll surface only the first failing test for Devon to focus on.
And it'll also manage the get state for Devon so that if Devon like kind of like
is working on a test, but then messes up something really badly and like earlier
tests are failing now, it'll say like, okay, here's like the history of your
things and which things were working and now you've made it worse.
Do you want to roll back and things like that?
And, um, in this case, the CLI tool is like, it is doing much more than like
what, what any like MCP integration could do because it's actually
interactive with the agent.
It's almost like reprompting it.
It's, it's to the point where it's almost a part of like the agent
tech system itself.
It's very interesting.
Yeah.
I've, I've built some, uh, CLI tools to do data analysis.
I've been trying to get all these different coding tools to try to
basically do data analysis, come with hypotheses and, and, you know, uh, run
new tests.
I recently saw someone use, uh, get bisect to figure out when things have
been breaking and it kind of blows my mind that, uh, agents can do these
kinds of things.
Um, I mean, I would love to sort of also give you the floor a little bit.
I'm curious, like, what are the new things in Devon that you're really excited
about and what are the things you want people to try out?
Yeah.
I think the, you know, at least related to recent news, the thing that I'm
like thinking a lot about now is like, where are these like really great
synergies between, um, your local development environment and your, your
remote agents that you can use.
And I personally think that when you look at kind of like, you know, the,
the range of like people in their AI adoption from like the, like people
just getting started to like the really powerful, like, you know, power users
of AI, one thing that just constantly comes up is just like actually reading
code, reading code, understanding code, planning how, how you want to make
changes.
Um, cause when you're an individual developer, you're, you're actually
oftentimes you're working in math or code based searching code that isn't yours.
You're trying to understand it.
And when you're trying to work on larger tasks, like you said, like a lot of
things you can actually kind of just tag Devon on today and it'll go up and do
for you, but there is a cap to that.
And like, if you want to expand to larger tasks, you have to actually invest time
almost in like creating a plan or creating a PRD.
Um, and this process actually, I think can be become easier and easier.
Um, it is actually maybe something where like AI has a unique advantage in helping
you because the AI, um, even though it can like only edit code serially, it
can, it can read codes like so much faster than any of us can.
Um, and so I'm very excited about things we're going to be doing and just making
that process and experience be a lot easier.
That makes sense.
That makes sense.
Um, yeah.
In the last couple of minutes, I'm just curious, like, you know, where can we
find you?
I'll make sure to share some more links on both Devon and your Twitter and
anything like that.
But, uh, yes, feel free to send off a last message as I find all your information.
Yeah.
Um, I'll also drop my email in the chat in case people want to email and ask
questions.
Um, but yeah, I'm most on Twitter and you can, you can DM me.
Um, you know, obviously I try to make this, this talk as kind of like high
level and, and, and focus on, on the engineering of Devon as possible.
We, we spent a lot of time kind of making our agents, you know, really good.
I think there's going to be continued lessons we have here.
And so I think it's almost the responsibility of like the entire space
to just make sure that we're always thinking about like, what is it going to
be the next concept we have to develop and building these agents?
And I just imagine like, you know, five years from now, um, there's going to be
like, you know, entry level courses in college about like, you know, the, the,
the, the concepts that we need.
Um, and, and that's going to be a fun world where like everyone understands
these concepts, but yeah, we're, we're, we're doing a lot of work towards that.
Um, obviously in the audience, if there are people who are interested in using
the tools that we're building, or so we're like working alongside us, you know,
would also love for you guys to reach out and try, try this stuff out.
Awesome.
Well, thank you so much for being here.
I feel like, you know, even just thinking about this, like the escalation and
this like pumped aware, uh, pump, catching aware frameworks that I've realized that,
uh, you know, very few people, very few practitioners have been motivated to
share up what they've learned.
So I'm really excited to have you here and teach us everything.
Awesome.
Well, thank you so much.
Take care of everyone.
